---
title: Books: So Good They Can't Fire You
---

- Metadata:
Author:: [[Cal Newport]]
Tags:: #work #Mission
Status:: [[📥inbox]]
Related Notes::

- Literature Notes:
	 - [[Work is more enjoyable if you have control and autonomy]]

	 - [[If you are finding yourself comfortable and unchallenged—you are accepting that you're in an acceptable state and not practicing deliberately]]

	 - [[Focus and spend more time on what's important rather than what's immediate]]

	 - [[Adopt value creation over a productivity mindset.]]
		 - [[Embrace a craftsman mindset over a passion mindset]]

	 - [[Make work enjoyable by creating daily habits and routine that automatically create value for your mission]]

	 - [[Create a mission to make work enjoyable]]
		 - [[To find our mission and a guided career development path we need to embrace feedback]]

- Takeaways:
	 - If you want to love what you do, your first step is to acquire [[career capital]].
		 - Career capital are [[skill]]s, [[connection]]s and credentials that put you in a better position to make a difference in the future.

		 - [[Invest]] your career capital into [[traits]] that define great work. #blck:yellow
id:: 553ea772-b822-4032-a2ea-53709c45c0c8

	 - When you adopt a [[[[productivity]] [[mindset]]]] we prioritize completion of [[tasks]] over an intentional and [[deliberate practice]] towards a [[goal]] or [[mission]].
id:: 1ec5416a-50ac-458a-8c04-6f5a8b4a2175
		 - We tunnel vision on [[getting things done]] and forget to measure the [[value]] of our activities in relation to where we want to go
id:: eb1736aa-0b88-4413-9ad1-87a631bd9acf

		 - [[Deliberate practice]] means the work is not always enjoyable, it is above all effort of focus, concentration and hard work. 
id:: aba6b48b-3088-4c11-8813-22026de60811
			 - If you're not [[uncomfortable]] then you are at an acceptable level

			 - [[Deliberate practice]] requires good [[goals]]

	 - Don't devise a [[mission]] in your career field when you lack any [[career capital]]
		 - When you are ready to employ your [[mission]], use the [[little bets]] strategy
			 - The [[little bets]] strategy is breaking down your mission to little actionable pieces and [[testing]] them to gain [[feedback]] and move forward your missions and goals

			 - Use your [[career capital]] to identify a [[mission]] and make it succeed
				 - [[Mission]] is one of the most important [[traits]] you can acquire with career capital

		 - [[Missions]] are powerful because they focus our energy toward a useful [[goal]] and maximizes your impact to the world. This is useful to [[loving]] what you do.
id:: 34a074b3-c90c-4ada-8501-2a9bf79c297b
			 - People who feel like their careers matter are more [[satisfied]] with their working lives and more resistant to the [[stress]] of [[hard work]].
id:: 4581fe03-109f-4bf9-b7b3-5ac12dd9e8b5

	 - #influence [[The Law of  Remarkability]]  says that for a [[project]] to [[transform]] a mission into a success, it should be remarkable in two ways. 
		 - It must [[compel]] people to remark about it to others

		 - The project must be [[launched]] in a venue or environment conducive to such remarking

- Kindle Notes:
	 - ^^**Working right trumps finding the right work.**^^
id:: 3cd0330b-1653-4bfb-b473-631351122bb0

	 - A little bet, in the setting of mission exploration, has the following characteristics: It’s a project small enough to be completed in less than a month. It forces you to create new value (e.g., master a new skill and produce new results that didn’t exist before). It produces a concrete result that you can use to gather concrete feedback.
id:: 876caecd-c83f-41af-92af-1fd6c06c318b

	 - #prioritization If I had to describe my previous way of thinking, I would probably use the phrase “[[[[productivity]]-centric.]]” Getting things done was my priority. When you adopt a [[[[productivity]] [[mindset]]]], however, deliberate practice-inducing tasks are often sidestepped, as the ambiguous path toward their completion, when combined with the discomfort of the mental strain they require, makes them an unpopular choice in scheduling decisions.
id:: 4ea0817c-26cc-4de4-8268-b06aa58d7a6b

	 - #Mission
		 - It’s more important to become good at something rare and valuable, and then invest the career capital this generates into the type of traits that make a job great. The traits of control and mission are two good places to start.
id:: a18d1f46-af84-4e5a-b1d8-e6530bd8ec54

		 - To try to devise a mission when you’re new to a field and lacking any career capital is a venture bound for failure. 
			 - Once you identify a general mission, however, you’re still left with the task of launching specific projects that make it succeed. An effective strategy for accomplishing this task is to try small steps that generate concrete feedback—[[little bets]]—and then use this feedback, be it good or bad, to help figure out what to try next. This systematic exploration can help you uncover an exceptional way forward that you might have never otherwise noticed. The little-bets strategy, I discovered as my research into mission continued is not the only way to make a mission successful. It also helps to adopt the mindset of a marketer. This led to the strategy that I dubbed the law of remarkability.
				 - [[The Law of  Remarkability]] This law says that for a project to transform a mission into a success, it should be remarkable in two ways. 
					 - First, it must literally compel people to remark about it. 

					 - Second, it must be launched in a venue conducive to such remarking. 

					 - In sum, mission is one of the most important traits you can acquire with your career capital. But adding this trait to your working life is not simple. Once you have the capital to identify a good mission, you must still work to make it succeed. By using little bets and the law of remarkability, you greatly increase your chances of finding ways to transform your mission from a compelling idea into a compelling career.

		 - For a mission-driven project to succeed, it should be remarkable in two different ways. First, it must compel people who encounter it to remark about it to others. Second, it must be launched in a venue that supports such remarking.

		 - If career capital makes it possible to identify a compelling mission, then it’s a strategy of little bets that gives you a good shot of succeeding in this mission. 

		 - These bets allow you to tentatively explore the specific avenues surrounding your general mission, looking for those with the highest likelihood of leading to outstanding results. 
id:: 343db7ca-68b5-4a7d-92b5-ff65209258fa

		 - To maximize your chances of [[success]], you should deploy small, concrete experiments that return concrete feedback. #[[little bets]]
id:: d4f866c4-2324-4978-a3e0-cbd9c63c51e3
			 - little victories of the jokes that connect, provide the key information required for Rock to put together an extraordinary set. This style of little bets, I realized, is what Kirk deployed to feel out his mission of popularizing archaeology. He tried releasing a DVD, filming a documentary, and putting together a film series for his students.

		 - Advancing to the cutting edge in a field is an act of “small” thinking, requiring you to focus on a narrow collection of subjects for a potentially long time. Once you get to the cutting edge, however, and discover a mission in the adjacent possible, you must go after it with zeal: a “big” action.

		 - Missions are powerful because they focus your energy toward a useful goal, and this, in turn, maximizes your impact on your world—a crucial factor in loving what you do. People who feel like their careers truly matter are more satisfied with their working lives, and they’re also more resistant to the strain of hard work.
id:: 9e0182ea-060d-4caa-9ecc-8f43ce2a20c3

		 - > I recognized that her happiness comes from the fact that she built her career on a clear and compelling mission—something that not only gives meaning to her work but provides the energy needed to embrace life beyond the lab.

	 - The __Law of Financial Viability__ When deciding whether to follow an appealing pursuit that will introduce more control into your work life, seek evidence of whether people are willing to pay for it. If you find this evidence, continue. If not, move on.

	 - But when it comes to decisions affecting your core career, money remains an effective judge of value. “If you’re struggling to raise money for an idea, or are thinking that you will support your idea with unrelated work, then you need to rethink the idea.”

	 - Control
		 - Control that’s acquired without career capital is not sustainable.

		 - To summarize, if your goal is to love what you do, your first step is to acquire career capital. Your next step is to invest this capital in the traits that define great work. Control is one of the most important targets you can choose for this investment.
id:: 3365d992-bca3-45f8-a80b-298627ca3d46
			 - Giving people more control over what they do and how they do it increases their happiness, engagement, and sense of fulfillment.
id:: ac3b17d9-2d67-4a49-a32c-9b831e110f24

			 - Decades of scientific research have identified this trait (control) as one of the most important you can pursue in the quest for a happier, more successful, and more meaningful life. 
id:: a456aea5-47ab-4e8d-913b-48756b2e8d9d

			 - The appeal of control, however, is not limited to farmers. Decades of scientific research have identified this trait as one of the most important you can pursue in the quest for a happier, more successful, and more meaningful life. 
id:: 7d00e1ec-7cb4-4eab-8751-99f579fa172e

	 - #[[Deliberate Practice]]
		 - It’s at this point, once you’ve identified exactly what skill to build, that you can, for guidance, begin to draw from the research on deliberate practice. The first thing this literature tells us is that you need clear goals. If you don’t know where you’re trying to get to, then it’s hard to take effective action.
			 - Doing things we know how to do well is enjoyable, and that’s exactly the opposite of what deliberate practice demands…. Deliberate practice is above all an effort of focus and concentration. That is what makes it “deliberate,” as distinct from the mindless playing of scales 
id:: 837b77f9-eee3-4090-ad81-142ed5b9db60

			 - This is what you should experience in your own pursuit of “good.” If you’re not uncomfortable, then you’re probably stuck at an “acceptable level.” 
id:: adc9cc39-dae8-4231-9629-2127e0fe6422

			 - Deliberate practice is often the opposite of enjoyable.
id:: f90e2fc3-2b88-4dc9-82b9-558b7b34f71a

			 - “Deliberate practice requires good goals.”

			 - deliberate practice provides the key to excellence in a diverse array of fields, among which are chess, medicine, auditing, computer programming, bridge, physics, sports, typing, juggling, dance, and music.

		 - Pushing past what’s comfortable, however, is only one part of the deliberate-practice story; the other part is embracing honest feedback—even if it destroys what you thought was good.
id:: 716e5ec6-f6e1-4c29-9acf-0047ca3b9af0

	 - #[[career capital]] Finding Opportunities for career capital
		 - A useful heuristic in this situation is to seek open gates—opportunities to build capital that are already open to you.

		 - Once you’ve identified your market, you must then identify the specific type of capital to pursue. If you’re in a winner-take-all market, this is trivial: By definition, there’s only one type of capital that matters. For an auction market, however, you have flexibility.

		 - When you are acquiring career capital in a field, you can imagine that you are acquiring this capital in a specific type of career capital market. 
			 - There are two types of these markets: winner-take-all and auction. 
				 - In a __winner-take-all market__, there is only one type of career capital available, and lots of different people competing for it. Television writing is a winner-take-all market because all that matters is your ability to write good scripts. That is, the only capital type is your script-writing capability. 

				 - An __auction market__, by contrast, is less structured: There are many different types of career capital, and each person might generate a unique collection. The cleantech space is an auction market.

	 - #mission #[[goal setting]] “I want to spend time on what’s important, instead of what’s immediate,”
id:: 819d6b16-0192-42a8-b785-1b27174affe8

	 - #feedback #improvement
		 - During his rise, Alex consistently chose projects where he’d be forced to show his work to others.
id:: 35664d3b-5e66-4c3b-b51a-a6e859b076b4
			 - He then obsessively sought feedback, on everything—even if, looking back now, he’s humiliated at the quality of scripts he was sending out.
id:: db1bd30d-946a-42c2-bfbb-b953e6005831

			 - “You need to be constantly soliciting feedback from colleagues and professionals,” he told me.
id:: c4f6a58c-bfd0-45d2-a22f-076d565e1b90

		 - He stretched his abilities by taking on projects that were beyond his current comfort zone; and not just one at a time, but often up to three or four writing commissions concurrently, all the while holding down a day job!

		 - They’re both focused on difficult activities, carefully chosen to stretch your abilities where they most need stretching and that provide immediate feedback.

		 - This focus on stretching your ability and receiving immediate feedback provides the core of a more universal principle—one that I increasingly came to believe provides the key to successfully acquiring career capital in almost any field.
id:: 4200b4c4-9752-4133-bb00-6feac5d75b73

	 - Craftsman mindset #[[craftsman mindset]] vs #[[passion mindset]]
		 - When you enter the working world with the passion mindset, the annoying tasks you’re assigned or the frustrations of corporate bureaucracy can become too much to handle.
id:: 4eae393b-0c06-4afc-a973-4b44e4ab3808
			 - First, when you focus only on what your work offers you, it makes you hyperaware of what you don’t like about it, leading to chronic unhappiness. A focus on what value your job offers you.
id:: ecb8d807-d7d7-48bb-99f2-2f97b5babebf

		 - Whereas the craftsman mindset focuses on what you can offer the world, the passion mindset focuses instead on what the world can offer you.
id:: 0aedab27-4465-4344-894c-0b585a0ae237
			 - The craftsman mindset, with its relentless focus on what you produce, is exactly the mindset you would adopt if your goal was to acquire as much career capital as possible.
id:: 91973144-0df3-4827-9f38-f752c8b2e10f

			 - There’s something liberating about the craftsman mindset: It asks you to leave behind self-centered concerns about whether your job is “just right,” and instead put your head down and plug away at getting really damn good.
id:: b63fec6c-121a-4af4-be41-1941a93f194f

			 - The craftsman mindset offers clarity, while the passion mindset offers a swamp of ambiguous and unanswerable questions.
id:: d25a1a43-dc76-4b87-b20f-2fd9f7547534

			 - “The key thing is to force yourself through the work, force the skills to come; that’s the hardest phase,”
id:: b32eb419-89f1-49a4-a33c-a0933476fc73

			 - Put aside the question of whether your job is your true passion, and instead turn your focus toward becoming so good they can’t ignore you.
id:: 7c00b3b6-cb27-4cac-aaed-9f91469ce6c1

			 - ^^“Stop focusing on these little details,” it told me. “Focus instead on becoming better.”^^
id:: 60e278c0-4ec2-4865-a82f-7dd77e555a8a

		 - THREE DISQUALIFIERS FOR APPLYING THE CRAFTSMAN MINDSET 
id:: 6cde1031-7f9a-4d6a-8038-9bd0808b77f4
			 - The job presents few opportunities to distinguish yourself by developing relevant skills that are rare and valuable. 
id:: d092ad40-fa42-4d31-9f8f-58c88c75cf8e

			 - The job focuses on something you think is useless or perhaps even actively bad for the world. 
id:: 9d2572fa-eb0a-4789-bca9-ddb63e4e5ab6

			 - The job forces you to work with people you really dislike.
id:: d3ca424c-7262-4ff0-9cf0-70542d2fc0ad

		 - TRAITS THAT DEFINE GREAT WORK 
			 - Creativity: Ira Glass, for example, is pushing the boundaries of radio, and winning armfuls of awards in the process.

			 - Impact: From the Apple II to the iPhone, Steve Jobs has changed the way we live our lives in the digital age. 

			 - Control: No one tells Al Merrick when to wake up or what to wear.
