- Tasks
	- Read the job description #done
	- Stories
		- Leadership, Teamwork oriented and interpersonal skills - team building, interpersonal skills - Suitability Petitions
			- I think teamwork is critical to achieving the goals of OBI. The objective for reusability and scalability is an example that requires a team effort across multiple functions of OBI to achieve. I'm working through that problem now with OGD and using the Suitability Petitions Nexus transition to drive that effort of sustainability.
			- One challenge of addressing sustainability is the approach for scalability and reusability is poorly defined by OBI and to even get to that decision is unclear. In  may this year we didn't have a contractor team because the contract didn't start until October so I had to form a team of FTEs to help move the process along because there is a GDUFA III mandate to this effort for October 2023. First I had to assume many roles as business analyst, project manager, product manager and form a team to cover the skills I didn't have.
			- Because I didn't have formal authority I leveraged my relationships within the PMO to help me get support from the Task Tracking Tool developers to conduct the feasibility and technical analysis if we can leverage the TTT tool. I also collaborated with the OGD users and help high level requirements meeting to understand their process flow. As a team, PMO members, task tracking tool, and OGD stakeholders were able to come to a decision that the Suitability Petitions use case can serve as a test workflow for OGD's first attempt at reusability and scalability.
			- The result is that GDIT can be onboarded quicker since we know the general direction of the proposed solutions and I can provide the high level needs and education on the Suitability Process. There's already an existing team in place and we saved 5 months of time of upfront work done team of PMO, TTT devs, and our product owner to help us meet the October 2023 deadline for the project.
		- Leadership - accountable, supervising, and delegating - Agile OM WER
		  collapsed:: true
			- I think keeping people accountable for the work they need to perform can be a very difficult task.  This can be the case as a project manager when we don't have the formal authority to leverage as tools for responsibility and accountability.
			- I find clear communications and shared understanding of the goals, roles, expectations, and proposed solutions are good tools for keeping everyone accountable.
			- I experienced this when starting the OM WER project and one of my goals was for the team to work as agile as possible. This goal included the whole team from developers to our product owners and end users.
			- One of the goals was to elicit feedback as early and often as possible. And I asked the dev team to improve the user story writing by improving the narrative writing and adding wireframes if needed. To make the goal understandable I provided examples of what the expected results should look like. I also restated that this was to support the goal of working in an agile way and the benefits for the dev team was to prevent rework by lessening the chances of changing requirements by getting the feedback even before development through wireframes and detailed user stories.
			- We communicated to our  end users and product owners what their role was and what we expected of them. Which was to provide detailed feedback on wireframes and narrative of the user story. We outlined the benefits for the users and product owners was helping our team deliver a solution as close to their vision as possible through the help of their feedback.
		- Initiative - Problem solving - Filling in Knowledge gap - Onboarding
		  collapsed:: true
			- I think discovering and solving problems outside your job description requires initiative and team building. When I first joined OBI there was a clear gap of onboarding materials for new hires and I noticed a lack of a knowledge management repository for OBI. As a new hire not only was it challenging to fully understand the organization and its function but also understand the breadth of the systems and tools we use. I also had to learn the different offices that we support and to what projects we were working on. The knowledge a new hire needed to know to start contributing to OBI was substantial. It clearly needed to be addressed.
			- One of my first attempt to ease onboarding was to create a SharePoint site to serve as a knowledge repository. Unfortunately, I didn't get very far because I was new and my request for a site was ignored.
			- I was also trying to solve the issue by holding new hire meetings and Tessa noticed the work I was doing and we partnered together to not only create an onboarding website but also a new hire guide pdf document. With her formal authority, we were approved a SharePoint site within the day. It took us about 2 months to fully complete the site and then we partnered with CIPT and added Michelle Garret and her crew to help us create a professional looking new hires guide.
			- The work to expand and improve the onboarding site continues but now we have all OBI All hands and Table Talks meetings recorded. We also have work directory where someone can easily search what each product manager or technical delivery manager is working on. It's one of our main resources we point new hires too and I am really proud for all the team members that were involved to have identified a need, planned how to address it and executed it.
		- Innovation - problem solver -Tell me about a past accomplishment you are especially proud of - Orange Book
		  collapsed:: true
			- The Orange Book Nexus transition and leading the development is the most proud and challenging project in OBI. It was my very first solo project with only 3 months experience in OBI and with zero formal training or experience in IT project management.
			- It was both rewarding and challenging. Rewarding because it tested all the qualities needed to lead a  project through several challenges.
			- The first challenge was change management and relationship building because Orange Book Division was skeptical of fully transitioning into Nexus and it represented their first use case. We needed to gain their confidence we can build something better than their current workflow. The technical challenge was that OBI leadership told us not to build integrations with DARRTS because they had wanted to sunset DARRTS, even though it represented a critical trigger for the workflow.  Our technical solution was to use a pdf parser to create the workflow trigger based on the keywords parsed from to create a task in Nexus.
			- In the end we fell short on our technical parsing solution as it would fail to parse any flat documents and I personally to accountability responsibility for that by doing twice daily check between DARRTS and Nexus to ensure we didn't miss creating a Nexus task. Despite this setback we still earned the Orange Book Division's trust that they plan to move all their systems into Nexus.
		- Leadership - Challenge, stress, pressure - Contractor vs PM
		  collapsed:: true
			- I think as a leader driving organizational change is incredibly challenging and even more so if you want to drive change, speak up, and offer alternatives to the status quo without formal authority.
			- Something that I spoked up about and partnered with my supervisors was change was the relationships between my supervisors and the contractor leadership. Before this change occurred it was normal that only contractor leadership and supervisors meet to discuss projects without their PM being in the room. The contractors abused this relationship and the contractor PM would directly talk to my supervisors whenever they disagreed with my project management decisions.
			- As a leader I think you should empower the team and give them challenges to help them grow. I found the overreliance on our contractors especially in the product management harmful to our growth and learning.
			- It took some time to build up the courage to point out this harmful practice and toxic organization structure to my direct supervisor. I pointed out that meeting with the contractor PM without the project managers to talk about the projects and or making decisions on our projects after talking to the contractors without us in the room.  I told my supervisors that it made me question what my role in OBI was? I'm here to solve technical problems and build relationships with my clients and technical delivery partners, but it seems like they'd rather trust the contractors over the pm. My supervisors were not aware of how this structure and process was creating a division within the government side and how the contract leadership used it as tool to "win" any disagreements with PMs.
			- After coming to the realization of how this was destructive, immediate changes were made. Our supervisors empower us, we meet with the contractor leadership along with our supervisors in the same room and same time. If contractors contact our supervisors without us, we get brought into the discussion and we work it out with the contractors instead of our leadership taking over those discussions. It took some time and courage to speak up and drive change, but I'm happy I did so. I believe that leadership should empower workers and raise the bar of quality and trust that they'll meet the challenge.
		- Mistake - me a specific situation where you failed or lead a difficult project.
		  collapsed:: true
			- During my first months at OBI, I inherited the Orange Book Nexus Transition Project from a PM who was leaving, so I didn't have a full understanding of the business needs and the product vision. Worse I didn't understand the interconnections of OBI systems between DARRTS, Panorama, and Nexus. A perfect environment for a challenge and ripe for mistakes.
			- As the FTE lead of Product Management team we were tasked of transitioning the patent review workflow from a manual process to an automated Nexus project. At that time OBI had the initiative to sunset DARRTS. So our solution couldn't create any integrations with DARRTS, even though the business workflow relied on DARRTS information to trigger the workflow.
			- The implementation had to think outside the box and we partnered with Integrity and used their parsing functionality to parse pdf content to correctly identify  patent 3542 forms based on their content instead of relying on the manual categories and subcategories afforded by the DARRTS system.
			- The final parsing solution unfortunately fails on pdf files that are scanned or saved in a way that the text is no longer parsable. As a result to cover this gap, I conduct a twice daily check between DARRTS and Nexus to ensure we don't miss any patent submissions. Every day since a year ago I am reminded of this mistake. I did not keep myself accountable to ensure I tested the solution, I didn't keep my leadership accountable for the decisions they handed my team down and I didn't keep my technology partners accountable and responsible to educate us on the limitations of the parsing solution. With every project I make it a high priority to speak up and keep everyone in the team accountable and responsible for delivering their best work.
		- Tell me how you handle conflict at work. Where you disagreed with your boss or supervisor. - Search 360
		  collapsed:: true
			- I have great working relationships with my colleagues and supervisors and OBI leadership. It's something I strive nurture and foster. However, I think it's the early parts of the relationship building that can be challenging because you haven't earned their trust in order to feel comfortable speaking up or disagreeing with.
			- In my very first months working in OBI I was reviewing the Search 360 results. Before coming to OBI I was an OND RPM so I relied heavily on the contents of the IND and NDA submissions which Search 360 was supposed to make easily searchable. However I noticed that it was not indexing all of the submission documents and resulted incomplete search results for the INDs and NDAs affected.
			- Speaking up as a new employee and telling your colleagues and especially OBI leadership your search engine is faulty is nerve wracking to do. So I decided to use facts and numbers to help my cause. To analyze how wide spread and determine the scope of this bug, I pulled 100 INDs and NDAs in combination and searched through all of them to see if there was a difference in the actual submission files and the Search 360 search results. From the 100 test cases, I found about 40 of them incomplete in Search 360.
			- I showed my results to two Division leads but unfortunately my complaints was downplayed as Search 360 was in "beta".  Similar pushback and minimizing of the data occurred when brought to the Search 360 team. I was disappointed of the outcomes of those meetings and that all the time I spent quantifying the errors were not enough to convince OBI leadership of the importance of producing trustable search results. Instead of going through technical and product division heads, I went to talk to Tessa who had a more client focused and healthcare focused background in hopes leveraging her authority to bring seriousness to this issue.
			- Luckily she agreed that our IT solutions should build and foster trust and that Search 360 producing misleading results erodes client trust and brought greater attention to the cause. Tessa was acting director at that time and pushed for a fix within two weeks. It turned out I was correct on severity of the issue and incredibly thankful to mitigate erosion of our trust between OBI and clients and ensuring quality solutions.
			- ((6359eaff-7b8a-4429-831f-6a7918fe5477))
		- What is your biggest weakness.
		  collapsed:: true
			- I took part of this really great training called Smarter Leaders, Smarter teams where I learned that I lack curiosity of other peoples perspective.
			- In any problem there's two sides right and we often think we're right and don't think we're contributing to the problem. That's something I'm trying to be aware of. I'm remedying that through a state of curiosity. Asking myself  how I'm contributing to the problem. Often in OBI we're quick to say "oh the client is challenging" . Now I ask what am I doing to make the client seem challenging and uncover what I can do better. I think it's important for leadership to listen more often than talk. Assume that I don't have all the information and I need to listen more.
		- What is your best strength
		  collapsed:: true
			- My biggest strength is learning from my mistakes and not being afraid of failure. As someone whose current role is in the technology and IT field without a formal IT background, I rely heavily on setting a high bar for myself and learning from my mistakes and successes. That's why I'm incredibly active on taking initiatives that challenge the ability to think critically through issues, coming up with solutions and executing them so I get as much the problem solving experience. Then use that experience to drive organizational change---creating new intake documentation with PMO, be a better leader for my projects by aligning to agile processes with the PM guide, and build partnerships across OBI and OSP.
			- I've reached out to new hires and my own peers where we have meeting and talk about our failures and learn from them.
			- I think its important for someone in a leadership position that is responsible and accountable for themselves and of others to continually improve.  I think it's especially important for leadership to create a culture that is open to making mistake and prioritizing learning from it.
		- Why are you interested in this position?
		  collapsed:: true
			- I've been actively leading and starting projects and initiatives to help improve OBI processes like the new hire Onboarding site, Product Management guides, and building partnerships with the PMO to align with OBI initiatives.
			- This position would provide a top down perspective to better align and prioritize the work that I'm leading connect with the senior leadership goals. Often I identify a gap like building a bridge between OBI and PMO, I don't know if that type of work is already being done at the senior leadership level, but I have weekly one on ones with the PMO contractors to align the activities at frontline work with PMO activities. But I often don't know if the work were doing aligns strategically with the senior leadership priorities.
			- Second driving change for OBI, ability to question OBI decisions and drive innovative thinking would be easier with formal authority. It's difficult to speak up when you don't have formal authority and especially towards people who hold formal authority. For example it took a lot of courage, and  time, to speak up to my leadership that the project managers were not empowered and that our own leadership was undermining our positions as decision makers of our projects when they sided with contractor program managers when contracts disliked our choices. Our contractors had strategy meetings with our leadership without us in the room and contractors would email our leadership without cc'ing us.
		- Why should we hire you? What makes you the best candidate for this role?
		  collapsed:: true
			- I bring to OBI a unique client perspective when working as OND drug regulatory project manager. I also bring an empathetic and patient focused mindset from my time as oncology pharmacist.  When combined with my passion for technology, I'm able to form and nurture relationships between our clients and technology partners. In a team lead role, these relationships with our client and technology partners are crucial for driving change, thinking strategically and aligning senior leadership objectives and transforming them actionable initiatives and projects.
			- For example one of OBI's prominent initiative  is reusable and scalable code, so when given ownership of the GDUFA III commitment Suitability Petitions project, I saw it as an opportunity for OGD to attempt a reusable and scalable regulatory review tool. Without formal authority or contractor support. I formed a team consisting of our OGD end users to understand their business process . I partnered with the PMO and leveraged their authority and ensure we got the financial resources, and collaborated with the Task Tracking Tool team on the feasibility analysis to align and drive to that vision of scalability and reusability for OGD. Without those relationships and that team, that outcome would have not been possible.
		- Describe your career history
		  collapsed:: true
			- A near perfect response to that particular story question typically starts with early education, training, etc. and then walks me through each subsequent job - but only spending 3-4 sentences on each job, including the role performed, growth achieved, and reason for moving to the next one. Do not ramble, and do not surface irrelevant facts (I've had candidates go on for minutes about how good the cafeteria was and the benefits at a previous position - not good).
			- My education is random beginning with 4 year degree in arts and communication, followed with two years working in that field, then spending another 7 years in school to pursue a doctorate in pharmacy. I did an internship with Bayer in their oncology drug development division and experienced the pharmaceutical industry side in drug development. Then I worked as an oncology pharmacist to experience the more patient centered and healthcare focused perspective medicine, and then finally ended up in the drug regulatory side of medicines.
			- I gained a wholistic perspective the pharmaceutical industry from commercial drug development, drug regulation from the FDA, and a patient focused and perspective in my working as oncology pharmacy.
			- I think these experiences combined with my interest in technology and project and product management allows me to digest the organization's  strategy and direction and translate those into initiatives and apply them into the development processes such as improvements with the agile delivery model.
			- These different perspective also allows to me to recognize good and bad cultures and relationships and allows me to navigate to influence and slowly change that culture to a more collaborative team. By speaking out about contractor relationships with FTE PMs and supervisors
		- Tell me more about yourself
		  collapsed:: true
			- I think the best way to answer this question is to talk about the things that I do within OBI that is outside my job description.
				- I hate Inefficiencies and whenever I discover one I try to fix it. That's why I'm often very active in volunteering or going out of my own in OBI's process improvement projects. Like the onboarding site when I noticed that there wasn't one and the product management guide when there isn't a well document process in OBI.
				- I also attempted to have new hire meetings and onboardings but I've been incredibly busy lately so it's been difficult. I'm hoping once the product management guide and soon the product owner training I can start that again.
				- I like to help, even if it goes above and beyond my role. I act as an IT liaison for my supported offices, often connecting them to other super offices. For example I attend the OBMOD meetings which is a system owned by OIMT for Orange Book. I attend the OND New Drug Reviews meetings in behalf of both Orange Book and the User Fee teams. I also provide VIP customer service to my supported office.
				- I like to read. Right now mostly business books on decision making and strategy, project management and product management to fill in the knowledge gap and experience gap.
					- Decision making books are fascinating to me. Learning new processes on how to do things better are things I tend to do on my free time.
					- I've been employing a lot of what I learn to the job like creating templates and applying decision making approaches to my projects.
	- Create a bank of success stories for qualities gleaned from the job description or what you think will be asked of you
		- Describe a past mistake
	- Create a bank of your qualities that match what the company is looking for
		- Qualities are what make up the perfect candidate for a job. They are generally different types of knowledge, skills, or abilities that the company considers to be the utmost importance. You must reference this when answering interview questions.
		- OBI Qualities
			- Supervise, plan, delegate, hold accountability
			- Driving Innovation
			- Business judgement and communication
				- Deep Diver.
					- Operate at all levels, stay connected to the details, audit frequently and are skeptical when receiving mixed signals.
			- Collaborative
				- Relationship builder and creates partnership
				- Empathetic with the clients and customers
			- Proactive
				- Act as an owner of problems and initiatives. When I find a gap, I own it and come up with a possible solution. I think in the long term and act on behalf of the organization. I don't say that's not my job, unless I lack the technical know how or ability to help.
			- Problem Solver and Innovator
				- Strategist, Critical Thinker
			- High Bar for quality, Efficient and Effective
			- Deals with pressure, Organized, Time Management
			- Unique Perspective
				- Client oriented
					- Customer obsessed. Start with the customer in mind and work backwards. Works vigorously towards earning and keeping trust.
				- User experience and mindset
	- Create a bank for regular questions
		- **How are you with time management**
	- Create a bank for behavioral questions
- Tips During the Interview
	- Ask for an early time slot, avoid the afternoons and Mondays and Fridays.
	- Pretend they can always see you during a phone interview.
	- [[STAR Method]]
	- Focus your answers. Your goal is to response with a concise, targeted and clear answer. Don't ramble.
	- Be conversational, build rapport with your interviewer.
	- Answer the question. Before spouting out answer make sure you understand the question and actually answer it. Don't end up answering a question that wasn't actually asked.z
- Tailoring your answers to the interviewer questions
	- It's not about you, its about them.
	  collapsed:: true
		- You have to approach your job search from the point of view of the employer.
		- You need to present yourself as the solution to the hiring manager's problem, which is to get somebody who is qualified into the opening at the company, so that person can be part of solving the company's problem.
			- (How can we reverse engineer the decision makers values and what they're looking for in the position you are applying for?)
	- Dos and Don'ts
	  collapsed:: true
		- Do
			- Turn the interview from an "interrogation" to a "conversation" by taking this opportunity to highlight one of the Qualities you've discovered in your resaerch.
			- Highlight your strength that you know the company puts a lot of value in
			- Use a story from your past to support the strength you are trying to demonstrate
			- Quantify your level of achievement. Support your statements with facts.
		- Don't
			- Don't ramble
			- Don't brag about your accomplishments
			- Don't bring up irrelevant strenghts
			- Don't make claims you can't support with hard facts
- Questions to ask?
	- What are the top level problems does OBI need solving?
	  collapsed:: true
		- What do you envision the qualities and strengths are for the perfect candidate of this role and how do you envision them helping OBI's problems?
	- How would you describe the perfect candidate for this role?
	- What are the next stpes?
- My accomplishments
	- Orange Book Nexus Project
	  collapsed:: true
		- New Hire
		- Sole PM
		- Technical challenge of not creating integrations with DARRTS
	- OM WER Project
	- OM Senior Leadership and OM Huddle lead
	- Suitability Petitions
	  collapsed:: true
		- Act as business analyst
		- Drive decision making on TTT and how reusability and scalability approach
	- Product Manager Guide
	- Onboarding Website /Tessa
	- New Hires Onboarding Guide w/ CIPT
	- Relationship building with PMO, OGD Leadership, OM Leadership