- [[Decision Journal]]
	 - **WER Deferral presentation**

	 - ((85c9f05f-e9a6-4e0e-8f45-0d645d03a57b))
		 - (1) Identify the goal you’re trying to achieve or a specific decision you’re considering.
			 - Influence PMO not defer the WER project

		 - (2) Figure out a reasonable time period for achieving the goal or for the decision to play out.
			 - two days

		 - (3) Identify the tools/steps used in this decision
			 - powerpoint presentation
				 - graphics

				 - justification

				 - overview

				 - framing of the question

			 - meeting discussion

		 - (4) Imagine it’s the day after that period of time and you didn’t achieve the goal, or the decision worked out poorly. Looking back from that imagined point in the future, list up to five reasons why you failed due to your own decisions and actions or those of your team.
			 - Didn't communicate properly the reasons and justifications from OM perspective
				 - Incomplete or confusing graphics

				 - inadequate justifications (not compelling reasons)

			 - fail to understand and address PMO's needs

			 - Unorganized presentation

			 - failure to control meeting

			 - did not do enough research

		 - (5) List up to five reasons why you failed due to things outside your control.
			 - People talking too much and running out of time

			 - PMO have already decided or have their own agenda

			 - Failure to uncover unknown knowledge
				 - inflexible budget constraints

				 - inflexible work constraints - 

			 - Unorganized meeting members

			 - Unknown decision maker

		 - (6) If you’re doing this as a team exercise, have each member do steps (4) and (5) independently, prior to a group discussion of reasons.

	 - ((1e3512fb-f06a-4765-a7be-fc033b022587))
		 - (1) Identify the goal you’re trying to achieve or a specific decision you’re considering.

		 - (2) Figure out a reasonable time period for achieving the goal or for the decision to play out.

		 - (3) Imagine it’s the day after that period of time and you achieved the goal, or the decision worked out well. Looking back from that imagined point in the future, list up to five reasons why you succeeded due to your own decisions and actions or those of your team.
			 - Clear communication and precise meeting 

			 - Compelling justifications on why not to defer the WER project

			 - Clear graphics and PowerPoint presentation

			 - Addressed and understood the needs of stakeholders

			 - Controlled the flow of the meeting

		 - (4) List up to five reasons why you succeeded due to things outside of your control.
			 - Cooperative meeting members regarding meeting flow

			 - Open minded stakeholders (PMO)

			 - Stakeholders understood what was being communicated

			 - Hidden agendas in line with OM wishes

			 - No surprised uncovered information

		 - (5) If you’re doing this as a team exercise, have each member do steps (3) and (4) independently, prior to a group discussion of reasons.

	 - 
