- [[The Knowledge Project]] on [[Jason Zweig]]
	 - Q: The human brain is an instinct reaction mechanism. As soon as you
see salient information, your brain has already processed it. A lot of
experiments have shown that a lot of this process occurs in a tenth of a
second - a third of the time it takes you to blink your eye. And ^^if we don’t
have systematic mechanisms that enable people to discriminate good
information from bad, and reliable information from bogus or faulty
reporting - or simply propaganda that masquerades as reporting - then
society will really suffer.^^

	 - **I think if you’re not a skeptical reader, you’re not reading.**
		 - Q: It’s very disconcerting for me now to read news articles from mainstream
news organisations, or blogposts from just about anybody, where the wrong
things are linked or the right things are not linked. I really want material
judgements that are at least purporting to be objective to be sourced.
And if someone is telling me, ‘I believe X,’ or ‘I have concluded Y,’ then I
want to see how they know X, or why they believe Y. If the person is not
telling you that, you should probably move on, because you have no way of
independently or readily verifying what the person is telling you.

	 - ^^And the best way to [[minimize]] that [[risk]] is not to be [[overconfident]] about the state of your own [[knowledge]]. Yes, [[base rate]]s can be hard to surface, but you have to start with that as your premise. ^^As Danny Kahneman has said many times, and again, Michael Mauboussin referred to this when he was on [The Knowledge Project] with you, the single most important question to ask to almost anything is: ^^what is the base rate?^^
		 - ^^A base rate is a frequency or likelihood of an event occurring without intervention. ^^Base rates are a statistic used to describe the percentage of a population that demonstrates some characteristic. Base rates indicate probability based on the absence of other information. [Springer](https://link.springer.com/referenceworkentry/10.1007%2F978-0-387-79061-9_289)

	 - The other thing that every investor should [[ask]] is— actually there are two
other questions there that are helpful. 

One is: ^^what do I know that the other people on the other side of the trade are unlikely to know; and ^^

^^two: why do I think I [[know]] more than they do?^^

^^If you can’t come up with really strong answers to those questions, you
should stay out.^^

- ^^ the people who survive in a bear market - who thrive in a bear market - are the people who buy when no one else wants to.^^ But that requires two critical ingredients. ^^You have to have cash, and you have to have courage. If you have cash and no courage, or courage and no cash, you can’t buy.^^ #investment

- And that’s the kind of governor that people need to put on their behaviour.
^^If you know that you have self-control problems, you have to structure your
life so that the things that tempt you into bad behaviour don’t get surfaced
in your stimuli.^^

- {{pdf  https://firebasestorage.googleapis.com/v0/b/firescript-577a2.appspot.com/o/imgs%2Fapp%2FReligion%2FFbFPRZhmUM.pdf?alt=media&token=820d382e-33f9-4783-b2bb-0709853b6525}}
