- [[screen recording]] [[presenting]]
	 - Don't scroll the screen unless you have a point to make

- [[Article: Survivor Bias]] by [[Shane Parrish]]
	 - Link: [Farnam Street](https://fs.blog/2020/10/sharks-survivorship-bias/)

	 - Related Notes: [[Decision Making]] #[[📥inbox]]

	 - Takeaways: 
		 - Don't let [[survivor bias]] frame the question and problem you're solving incorrectly. Make sure you have the correct viewpoint of the problem first

	 - Notes:
		 - We must be careful to not let a volume of survivors in one area [[blind]] us to the stories of a small number of survivors elsewhere. 
			 - **We need to ask ourselves what stories are not being told because no one is around to tell them.** The [[experience]]s of the dead are necessary if we want an accurate understanding of the world.

			 - **The point is rather to consider how well you make decisions when you only factor in the stories of the survivors.**

		 - **Survivorship bias crops up all over our lives and impedes us from accurately assessing danger and making informed decisions** 
			 - Replace “dangerous sharks” with “dangerous cities” or “dangerous vacation spots” and you can easily see how your picture of a certain location might be skewed based on the experiences of survivors. We can’t be afraid of a tale if no one lives to tell it. 

			 - We don’t see the big picture and end up optimizing for a small slice of reality. We can’t completely overcome survivorship bias. The best we can do is acknowledge it, and when the stakes are high or the result important, stop and look for the stories of those who were unsuccessful. They have just as much, if not more, to teach us.
				 - The next time you’re [[assess]]ing [[risk]], ask yourself: am I paying too much attention to the great white sharks and not enough to the oceanic white tips?

			 - **More survivors can make something seem more dangerous rather than less dangerous because the volume of stories makes them more memorable.**

			 - **A lack of visible survivors with memorable stories might mean we view other fields as far safer and easier than they are.**

			 - **Survivorship bias prompts us to associate more risk with industries that exhibit more public failures.** But the failures from industries or businesses that aren’t shared are equally important.

			 - ^^If we don’t factor survivorship bias into our thinking we end up in a classic [map is not the territory problem.](https://fs.blog/2015/11/map-and-territory/)^^ The survivor stories become a poor navigational tool for the terrain.

		 - Creating [[automatic]] [[habit]]s
			 - [[Behavior]] is transfer of [[knowledge]] into [[action]]
				 - It's not enough to consume [[information]] and [[know]] [[information]], we have to [[act]] on it. 

			 - To [[automate]] behavior take away [[choice]] or reliance on [[willpower]]. 
				 - Create [[rule]]s based on [[identity]] or your [[goal]]s
					 - Tell your friends about your rule, since people do not argue with rules and it will be an automatic response rather than a choice 
