- Daily Journal
	 - [[Morning Prayer]]
		 - Father God thank you for getting me through this week. I pray for guidance today. I pray for wisdom and intelligence to get through this day and prepare for next week.

	 - Forgive me for not keeping you first in my life. Please remind me that my daily experience should be in the context of your presence Lord. Amen.

	 - [[Request]]
		 - Lord I pray for help and guidance on the Orange Book and OBMOD discussions for the  MOU code generation. Help me to trust in you and that you will provide all the necessary resources that will lead to a successful discussion and overall success of the Orange Book project.

	 - [[Grateful]]
		 - For another day of work that I enjoy. Thank you. God.

	 - [[Highlight-Day]]
		 - Prepare for the OBMOD and OBI meeting. 

	 - [[Evening Prayer]]

- #[[📥inbox]]
	 - [[Z: If you are going to compete with people, you want to compete with people are  less sophisticated than you.]]
id:: f5f69899-ca1e-4b2e-857e-f4587e8697c7
		 - Tags: #competition #success #collaboration #strategy

		 - Description:
			 - This idea seems anti-linchpin behavior of making other people successful?

			 - How can we support others and help them succeed if they are already successful?

			 - Can we define competition in a supportive and collaborative framework?

	 - It is not enough to think about difficult problems one way. You need to think about them forwards and backward. [[Inversion]] often forces you to uncover hidden beliefs about the problem you are trying to solve. “Indeed,” says Munger, “many problems can’t be solved forward.” #Inversion [[Problem Solving]] #[[Mental Models]]
		 - Tags: #[[Problem Solving]] 

		 - Source: [Farnam Street](https://fs.blog/2013/10/inversion/)

		 - Description:
			 - Example of Inversion Thinking
				 - If you are trying to improve innovation in your organization, the forward-thinking way would be to think about all the things you could do to foster innovation.  To view the same problem by inversion, we would think about all the things we could do to discourage innovation. Are those discouraging actions, actions we are doing now?

			 - Inverting a problem won't always solve it, but it will avoid harm. 

			 - [[Inversion]] helps improve [[understanding]] of the problem. By forcing you to do [the work necessary to have an opinion](https://fs.blog/2013/04/the-work-required-to-have-an-opinion/) you’re forced to consider different perspectives

			 - Spend less time trying to be [[brilliant]] and more time trying to avoid obvious stupidity. 
				 - Avoiding stupidity is easier than seeking [[brilliance]]. 
