- [[Evening Prayer]]
	 - Father God thank you for this three day labor day weekend to spend time with Adam and relax. Thank you for the blessing of this apartment and a place to live. Thank you for providing both of us a steady income and a means to live.

Father God I pray for the people who don't have work and are struggling to pay for rent and food. Please Lord be with them and help provide for their needs. Please be with everyone who is struggling through this COVID-19 pandemic.

Please Father God provide faith for those who are doubting and assurance for those in anxiety of your presence and care. I pray that you let everyone know that you are in control.

Lord I pray that I spend more time with you. I pray that you guide me in that journey and time spent with you. Let my thoughts be led by your guidance I pray. 

Father God I pray for your guidance and leading for this upcoming week. I am anxious of the Orange Book project and how that will turn out. Lord I pray that I trust you in everything in my life, that you will take care of all things. 

Lord bring me closer to you I pray. Amen.

- [[Book: Waiting on God]]
	 - Quote: The deep need for this [[waiting]] on God lies equally in the [[nature of man]] and the [[nature of God]]. God, as the creator, formed man, to be a vessel in which He could show forth His power and goodness. Man was not to have in himself a fountain of life, or strength, or [[happiness]]: the ever living and only living One was each moment to be the Communicator to him of all the he needed. 

	 - Quote: Man's glory and blessedness was not to be independent, or dependent on himself, but dependent on a God of such infinite riches and love. 

	 - Quote: When he fell from God, he was still more absolutely dependent on Him. There was not the slightest hope of his recovery out of his state of death, but in God, His power and mercy. It is God alone who began each moment in each individual believer. Even in the regenerate man there is no power of goodness in himself: he has and can have nothing that he does not each moment receive; and waiting on God is just as indispensable, and must be just as continuous and unbroken, as the breathing that maintains his natural life. 

- [[Gospel of Matthew]]
	 - Chapter 3:
		 - Verse 8: Bear fruit worthy of a change of hear; 9. And do not think to say among yourselves, "We have Abraham as a father; for I tell you that God has the power to raise up children to Abraham from these stones. 10. And even now the axe is laid to the root of the trees; and thus every tree not bearing good fruit is felled and thrown into fire. 

- [[Article: My Letter to a Young White Friend]]
