- [[P: My Professional Accomplishments]] #[[🚧 Projects]]
	 - Project Manager for Orange Book New NDA Patent Review Process
		 - MOU Code generation

	 - Project Manager for OM User Fee Staff - OM Brands

	 - Appian Training Completed

	 - Certified Scrum Master - Scrumalliange.org 

	 - In Progress
		 - COR II Certification  - classes done, blocked by experience requirements

		 - Salesforce Training in September

		 - Supporting OGD REMS & OGD Policy

	 - Personal Projects
		 - PM Knowledge Group 

		 - Appian Guide

		 - Create processes that create automate value creation

	 - Discussion Topics
		 - Future planned projects - new learning opportunities

		 - Christine's expectation and future expectations (projects, achievements, roles)

- [[Create a daily log for projects]]
	 - Keywords: #[[Project Management]] [[Control Documents]] #[[Lessons Learned]] #[[📥inbox]]

	 - The project manager records informal items, action items, and other issues not tracked by the formal logs.

	 - This document can serve as the risk register if it hasn't been set up yet.

- [[Create a Highlight Report for projects]]
	 - Keywords: #[[Project Management]] [[Control Documents]] [[Lessons Learned]] #[[📥inbox]]

	 - The highlights report is produced by the project manager to update the project board on the project status.

	 - This document can contain the scope, risks, benefits, or any other items needed to keep the board informed on the latest information.

- [[Psychological Safety]]  
	 - Creation of psychological safety is fostered through the work environment
		 - Frame problems or [[failure]] as [[learning]] opportunities rather than execution problems

- The higher you set your [[goals]], the more you will [[learn]] from your failures and successes achieving them. 

- When [[negotiating]] or presenting solutions that are less than ideal, [[label]] the fears that come from the solution's effects to interrupt the fear effect quickly. Then present your solution's positives to replace their fears with safety and trust.
	 - #Quote [[label]] your counterpart’s fears to diffuse their power. 
We all want to talk about the happy stuff, but remember, the faster you 
interrupt action in your counterpart’s amygdala, the part of the brain that  generates fear, the faster you can generate feelings of safety, well-being, and trust

- To live a long happy and healthy life, live a life that is generous and [[contribute]] freely to bless and give to others.
	 - #Quote: The late Dr. Hans Selye, in his monumental research on stress, basically says that a long, healthy, and happy life is the result of making contributions, of having meaningful projects that are personally 
exciting and contribute to and bless the lives of others
id:: e78131f9-6b83-4827-9e6c-3290fc819d77

- [[Praise]] publicly given is more believable and more valuable than praise given privately. 

- #[[📥inbox]]
	 - [[Quote]] Near the core of what makes a person a leader is their sense of identity. The  way you see yourself is determinative for your life and for the  decisions you make as a leader. Your sense of [[identity]] directs you in every situation. It is foundational,  determining the level of confidence you have when you challenge your boss in a  disagreement. It establishes your sense of security when you face doubts. It’s what enables you to process your emotions during tense conversations. Though  much of your identity is formed at an early age, your identity is always evolving. So it’s never too early or too late to begin processing your sense of  self.
