- [[Morning Prayer]]
	 - Lord I pray for your guidance and leadership today as I wrestle with the problems of the Orange Book Project, specifically the issue of generating MOU codes. I have a lot of tasks to do for preparation and I haven't thought out the problem and a solution yet.

I am afraid of failure and I am anxious of shouldering the burden of success or failure. Father God I want to give these feelings to you. Lord help me to trust that you will provide for me even in these mundane, really inconsequential moments of life.

	 - Father God I also pray for a better relationship, I've been away from you and distant because of this job. I ignored you for many months this year as I concentrated putting my hours and effort in learning more about being a project manager. Thank you for giving me this work and at the same time blessing me with the skills and intelligence to become successful. Lord I want to return to you and give you the time spent in your presence and acknowledging that all I have is due to your mercy and generosity. My success is your success.  Please guide me closer to you. I've been praying this prayer for many years and it is disappointing to only improve a tiny amount.

	 - Lord I pray for trust in you. Please take away my anxiety. Help me to depend and lean on your goodness. Give me the surety that you are above all else. Please remind me of your glory Amen.

- [[Praying For]]
	 - Father God I want to pray for Christine and her work. Please give her the support and help that she needs at work. She is overwhelmed with the COVID-19 drug applications. Please keep her healthy. 

- 

- [[Evening Prayer]]
	 - Father God thank you for being with me this Friday at work during the meetings that I had to run. Thank you for a successful Knowledge Sharing group with the EBDR meeting. I pray for continued success with the OBI PM group. Lord I pray for your continued blessings and guidance at work. Also thank you for a productive meeting with the capability meeting to discuss the MOU code generation. 
