- [[Project: Why and how to write in Pyramid Form]]

- [[The Knowledge Project]] with [[Roger Martin]]
	 - When we encounter a different idea from ours, even if we think it's terrible, can we gain any benefit by being curious of what leads them to accept and hold those beliefs?
		 - We can ask ourselves, "What would have to be true for that to be a great idea for me? 

		 - [[integrative thinking]] can be used when options are not to your liking

	 - When we approach problems try to think integratively #[[integrative thinking]]

	 - Not all problems are easy to solve through [[decision making]] and [[Good strategy]] alone, but most requires [[people skill]]s

	 - When we are seeking [[efficiency]] be aware the [[tradeoffs]] you are making such as processes that create [[margin]]s for [[error]]s

	 - ^^Be [[curious]]^^ 
		 - #question How do we remain and promote curiosity in our everyday personal and everyday life

	 - "If you do the same thing as everybody else, you're going to get the same results as everybody else." You have to deviate if you want to deviate results, but you need to create an advantageous divergence. You have to not only diverge from what everybody else is doing, but you have to be correct. 

	 - You can't [[analyze]] new ideas. Most innovation processes in the world of big companies insist on proof before doing something. [[certainty]] can not be easily predicted for the future ((7fca9a32-b0ed-4fb3-9ce9-f5cb7a04371d)) 
		 - Is our quest for certainty hindering innovation.

	 - Give yourself time when making decisions. Give yourself divergent options.

	 - {{pdf  https://firebasestorage.googleapis.com/v0/b/firescript-577a2.appspot.com/o/imgs%2Fapp%2FReligion%2FbJ8DOtdrkE.pdf?alt=media&token=39aa9507-e3d4-43cc-85e4-658fe13d6a78}}
