-
- [[5 Elements of Effective Thinking]]
	- [[Understand]] deeply
		- [[Z: Don't face complex issues head-on; first understand simple ideas deeply]]
		- #My-Zettelkasten
			- Tags: #complexity [[Problem Solving]] [[learning]]
			- Description:
				- [[Z: When you learn anything, go for depth and make it rock solid]]
		- Be brutally honest about what you know and don't know.
			- See what's missing, identify the gaps and fill in what's missing.
		- Let go of bias, prejudice, and preconceived notions
	- Make Mistakes
		- [[Z: Fail to succeed. Intentionally get it wrong to get it even more right.]]
	- Raise Questions
		- Constantly create questions to clarify and extend your understanding.
			- What's the real question? Working on the wrong question can waste a life time.
	- Follow the flow of ideas
		- Look back to see where ideas come from and then look ahead to discover where those ideas may lead
	- Change
		- By mastering the first four elements you can change the way you think and learn
	- Chapter 1 - [[Understand ]] Deeply
		- [[Z: When you learn anything, go for depth and make it rock solid]]
			- The most fundamental ideas in any subject can be understood with ever-increasing depth.
			- In everything you do, refine your skills and knowledge about fundamental concepts and simple cases
				- Break down complex skills to smaller pieces
				- Return to the basics
		- A way to provoke effective thinking:
			- Ask what do you know: Do you or don't you truly know the basics?
		- Break down complex [[problems]] into smaller solvable problems #upstream
		  id:: 853a51da-5566-41b4-924a-b5bd25a5e8c6
			- [[P - Understand the sub-issue and its solution backwards and forwards.]]
			  id:: f2294974-06c3-41e8-a6c1-6380c680b71b
				- Understand all its connections and implications
				- Consider the small piece from many points of view and in great detail
			- Uncover the essence
			- When faced with an issue that is [[complicated]] and multifaceted, attempt to isolate the essential ingredients.
		- The essence is not the whole issue. There is further steps of understanding how the other features or situations fit together; however, clearly identifying and isolating essential principles can guide you through the morass.
			- Step 1: Identify and ignore all distracting features to isolate the essential ones
			- Step 2: Analyze the central issue and apply those insights to the larger whole
		- [[biases]] and [[Prejudices]]
			- Whenever you "see" and issue or "understand" a concept, be conscious of the lens through which you're viewing the subject
			- Commonly held beliefs are frequently plain false
			- Be very clear about the foundations of your opinions
			- Become aware of the sources of your opinions
			- Open your minds to counter intuitive ideas to discover novel solutions and building deeper understanding
			- To better understand your world, consciously acknowledge what you actually see—no matter how mundane or obvious—rather than guess at what you think you are supposed to see
			- Being honest and accurate about what you actually know and don't know forces you to identify and fill gaps in your understanding
		- Illustration:  Communication/Presenting/Writing
			- If you are writing an essay or presenting, read literally what you have written—not what you intended to communicate.
			- Pretend you don't know the argument you are making and read your actual words
			- What's confusing and what's missing?
			- If you think you know an idea but can't express it clearly, then this process has identified a gap or vagueness in understanding.
			- After you admit and address those weaknesses, your exposition will be clearer and more directed to the actual audience.
		- Find the gaps
		- One of the most profound ways to see the world more clearly is to look deliberately for the gaps
		- If you're studying some body of material, ask yourself to identify those concepts that you truly do not fully understand.
		- Those concepts may, in fact be ideas that you were supposed to have mastered in an earlier class or at earlier point in your life.
	- Chapter 2 - Fail to Succeed
		- Failure is a potent teacher and a scheduled stop along the road to success
		- Breakdown a problem to its faults and fix each fault until you find the correct solution
		- Don't be afraid to record faulty ideas, they illicit questions to lead to better solutions
		- Mistakes present a great opportunity to learn and improve, but action is required.
		- To make failure a positive step toward success, you need to revise your work, try again, try more, and seek help until you've completely understood the defects in your failed efforts.
		- Being willing to fail is a liberating attribute of transformative thinking
	- Chapter 3 - Questions
		- Creating questions is as important as answering them, if not more so, because framing good questions focuses your attention on the right issues.
		- Asking yourself challenging questions can help you reveal hidden assumptions, avoid bias, expose vagueness, identify errors, and consider alternatives.
		- Asking "What if" questions invite you to see the world differently because those questions force you to challenge the status quo and to explore the limits of your understanding.
		- Challenge everything and everyone—including your teachers.
		- Get in the habit of asking how the issue looks from various viewpoints
		- There is no better way to learn anything than to actually teach it.
		- If you want to get more out of what you hear or see, force yourself to ask questions—in a lecture, at a meeting, while listening to music, watching TV, or viewing art.
		- People who ask lots of probing questions outperforms those who don't [[engage]] with ideas. #engagement
		- Effective questions turn your mind in directions that lead to new [[Insight]] and solution
	- Chapter 4 - Flow of Ideas
		- Reiterate problems - start with a poor draft or execution and iterate improvements
		- To generate new ideas through flow, first modify an existing idea within its own context then apply that same idea in different settings.
		- To truly understand a concept, discover how it naturally involves from simpler thoughts
		- Whenever you face an issue-whether an area of study or a decision about a future path—consider what came before.
		- Once you understand a more advanced topic, look back to see what brought you to where you are. The process will improve your understanding both of the earlier work and the more advanced work.
		- In thinking about the future, we must be conscious of the reality that the novelties of that appear strange to us today will be familiar, natural and perhaps even beautiful to the next generation, and possibly even to us in the future.
		- One of the challenges of life is to be open-minded about new ideas and new possibilities
		- Always improve solutions. There is no end to improving a solution.
	- Chapter 5 - Change
		- When learning a subject, learn the context around it to provide stability and a way to easier understanding
		- If you want to learn a subject, instead of memorizing rules and facts, concentrate on truly understanding the fundamentals deeply
		- If you're learning something, solving a problem, or developing a skill, imagine in detail what more skilled practitioner does, or what added knowledge, understanding and previous experience the expert would bring to the task.
		- In other words, describe the different task that an expert would be doing compared to what you are currently doing in undertaking your task Instead of thinking that you are going to be doing something that is harder—requiring more concentration and more—thing in terms of what kind of knowledge or skill or strategy would make the task an easier one.
		- Don't mute voices that challenge your beliefs.
		- Listen for doubt and turn doubts into helpful and positive tests of assumptions, ideas, and theories.
		- If you are open to new ideas, and you allow yourself to follow your changing opinions and passions, they will lead you in directions you did not originally expect to go.