- [[Weekly Review]]
	 - Lord thank you for bringing me through the week. I am still struggling to put you first in life. I still very much consumed with all the self-improvement and better decision making learning activities, rather than asking you for wisdom and having a conversation with you.

	 - Though thank you for bringing these content in my life to help with my anxiety and thank you for your constant presence that I may call on you for your comfort.
		 - Thank you for the new perspective on anxiety, to see my meetings with the Orange Book team and OBMOD teams as learning opportunities for growth. 

		 - I pray father God for your continued blessing on my projects. 
			 - Lord please keep me humble, kind, and gracious to my team.

			 - I pray for the source of wisdom come from you, and not from my own over-confidence.

			 - Lord help me to be aware that all I have is yours.

	 - Lord thank you for the lots of downtime this week for self-improvement and development. I appreciate this gift of the job to allow me to be a better worker and a better person. 

- Chunk out your work in 30-45 minute increments. #productivity

- [Experience]([[experience]]) vs [[expertise]]
	 - An [[expert]] is someone who has a [[predictive model]] that works, and so just because you’ve been doing something for a long time doesn’t mean that you have a predictive model that works. #[[Decision Making]]

- [[intuition]]
	 - Quote: I would say intuition should be used with a lot of caution. In some realms, really great. Other realms, it doesn’t work so well. One of the things, and I’ll end on this point, is that the first time I met Danny Kahneman was probably a decade ago. I took very copious notes in that session.

	 - One of the key concepts he talked about was what he called “disciplined intuition.” He said, “You know, you’re going to have these base rates, or statistical ways of thinking about things, and then you’re going to have your intuition. How do you use those two things, and in what order?”

	 - The argument he made was you should always start with the [[base rate]] the statistical approach, and then layer in your intuition. He called it “disciplined intuition.” Otherwise, if you go with your intuition first, you’re going to seek out, right, you’re going to seek out things that support your point of view. #[[Decision Making]]

- [Evaluate]([[evaluate]]) your decision making process

- As a lower level employee if you see a [process]([[processes]]) that could be improved, it can be a communication problem to articulate the benefits for the organization to your supervisor. #[[process improvement]]

- Think of [[alternative viewpoints]] for views, beliefs, and frameworks that you may have
	 - Read about other disciplines to expand and challenge your existing viewpoints
