- [[Meetings]]
	 - [[OGD OPQ Control Board Meeting]]
		 - Good Afternoon Everyone, My name is Philip and I'm the Project Manager for the Orange Book new NDA Patent Review solution in Nexus.

		 - I'd like to share with you the on-going projects for the Office of Generic Drugs

		 - First, is the Orange Book application in Nexus  launched in April of this year with monthly releases to continually improve the solution. This Nexus implementation helps the Division of Orange Book review new NDA patents. We are looking forward to working on the next major release next year.

		 - Controlled Correspondences, a Nexus workflow solution for responding to Industry correspondences was also released at the same time with Orange Book in April 2021 with the next release scheduled for March of next year.

		 - The Labeling Review Tool was released in May of 2021 and represents the first structured review workflow into Nexus for OGD and we are looking forward to the next major release in February. 

		 - Search 360 is a robust search tool to help search for Agency review documents and Industry submission documents and we are working on facilitating ease of searchability for the documents relevant to the Office of Bioequivalence. The major activities of this year was Office wide training(s), gaining user buy-in, and elicitation feedback for further improvements. 

		 - Lastly, we're also working with the Office of Bioequivalence on exploring a prototype solution for a structured review workflow led by Susanne. A prototype of this solution in Nexus will be released in January 2022 so stakeholders can get a better understanding of the look and feel of the Nexus application design.
