- [[Meetings]]
	- [[Orange Book Project]] + Hypercare
		- Form 3542 misnamed as 3542a not picked up by Integrity
	- [[Orange Book Project]] + [[Document Room]]
		- Government shut downs, Inclement weather,
		- Triggers: User requested, or in coordination with upper division leaders
		- PRN - subcat/cat DR from DARRTS
	- [[1-1]] + [[Christine]]
		- July Phase 2
		- OND 2022 - If all NDAs or only Originals
	-
- ((0fcc8f01-dba0-43f9-863e-c97739faf775))
	- Jeff Bezos and Steve Jobs experienced hardships and mistakes that allowed them to grow and learn through difficult challenges.
		- They weren't followers but leaders from the start. They didn't take things at face value but challenged and questioned the ideas around them and the people who held them.
		- > The world wants you to be typical—in a thousand ways, it pulls at you. Don't let it happen.
	- Jeff Bezos and Steve Jobs hired smart people and challenged them to their limits to produce something good. They surrounded themselves with brilliant people.
	- Jeff Bezos was an avid reader and took many of his business processes and philosophies from books (Good to Great and the [[Sam Walton]] of Walmart biography)
- ((70ca2de1-34ed-4e28-9583-7704b55e2851))
	- ((b06c12dd-29c3-43b0-9cc1-f1aab80fd4ea))
	- ((15b3fa2c-b12c-4705-bcd5-7f9c60d8073a))
	- Writing is a tool that sharpens our skill for organizing and formulating sophisticated ideas about something important. When we invest in writing, it is the same thing as doing—as if we are acting out our thoughts. Writing allows us to test our ideas and create a [[feedback loop]] from the dialogue we have with ourselves. The feedback gained from our writing, the conversations we have with ourselves, refine our thoughts and ideas, and therefore our responses. An action based on an informed and coherent writing process is mature compared to actions based on ignorance. Our responses communicate to others, we are competent, trustworthy, and intelligent when given responsibility for important issues. There is no better action than writing when we have to think critically and carefully about important problems.
	- > The primary reason to write an essay is so that the writer can formulate and organize an informed, coherent and sophisticated set of ideas about something important — [[Jordan Peterson]]
	- If you learn to write and to edit, you will also be able to tell the difference between good ideas, intelligently presented, and bad ideas put forth by murky and unskilled thinkers. That means that you will be able to separate the wheat from the chaff (look it up). Then you can be properly influenced by profound and solid ideas instead of falling prey to foolish fads and whims and ideologies, which can range in their danger from trivial to mortal— [[Jordan Peterson]]
	- Finally, it is useful to note that your mind is organized verbally, at the highest and most abstract levels. Thus, if you learn to think, through writing, then you will develop a well organized, efficient mind – and one that is well-founded and certain. — [[Jordan Peterson]]
	- If you sharpen your capacity to think and to communicate as a consequence of writing, you are better armed. The pen is mightier than the sword, as the saying goes. This is no cheap cliché. Ideas change the world, particularly when they are written. — [[Jordan Peterson]]
	- Seek to prove yourself wrong and find alternative viewpoints, rather seeking information that makes you look right.
- ((b67f398c-d536-432b-94d0-d4703ffaba77))
	- ((50dcc188-415e-4ca6-abf9-8f3a04d126fe))
		- ((b6c5b1e4-3d8e-48cc-b3e1-47240539d69e))
		- ((f3e0c648-7d70-4581-8cad-fe8e2c5bae39))