- [[Meetings]]
	 - [[Orange Book Project]] [[Capability Team]]
		 - TODO EDR File path
			 - What exactly is the issue and the blocker?

		 - Integration Testing
			 - Fix MOU code

	 - [[February 22nd, 2021]]
		 - [[Capability Team]] [[OBMOD]] [[Orange Book Project]] - Error Checking
			 - https://miro.com/app/board/o9J_lY-4wxY=/

			 - __What needs to happen for the meeting to go well.__
				 - Clearly state the purpose and agenda

				 - Clarify any questions

				 - TODO Next step items stated and shared

			 - **Agenda**
				 - **Systems Errors Only**
					 - Bring up possible errors in the system and information flow and agree on how to approach the solution.
						 - **Questions**
							 - TODO Are there automatic notifications for errors in systems?

							 - TODO Possible errors in OBMOD with downstream effects to Integrity
								 - Notification process?
									 - Who is notified and works to verify solution is fixed downstream to Integrity?

									 - What does the helpdesk process look like is it like 

							 - TODO Possible errors in Nexus application with downstream effects to Integrity?
								 - Notification process?
									 - Who is notified

								 - What would the process look like?
									 - Is the process the same for levels of priority or urgency?

							 - TODO Possible errors in Nexus application with downstream effects to Nexus?
								 - Per Liam Integrity should never be down

								 - Notification process?
									 - Who is notified

								 - What would the process look like?
									 - Is the process the same for levels of priority or urgency?

				 - **Information Errors**
					 - If information with errors is published and:
						 - Sent for Integrity and not yet consumed:
							 - Can we edit in Nexus and republish?

							 - What would the process look like?

							 - Upstream and downstream effects?

						 - Sent to Integrity and OBMOD consumed
							 - What is the mechanism to align in Nexus

					 - What is the likelihood of this happening

				 - TODO **What are the needs for:**
					 - OBMOD

					 - Helpdesk

					 - Integrity

					 - Implementation

				 - TODO ** Next Steps**
