- ((0fcc8f01-dba0-43f9-863e-c97739faf775))
	 - We can pray to God and ask guidance for all decisions that we make. 

	 - We can become good leaders by understanding ourselves. We can explore our weaknesses and strenghts. 

- [[Daily Review]]
	 - DONE Pray

	 - DONE Deliberate Practice (awareness and mindfulness of activities, rather than going through the motions)

	 - [[Deliberate Practice]] on activities that aligns with my goals and missions
		 - Act like a leader even when it's uncomfortable

		 - Seek perfection and high standards. No task is beneath me.

		 - Improve my writing

		 - Improve my thinking

	 - DONE  Conduct an “energy, focus, openness” check just prior to every meeting I attend  **OR** 
Conduct an “energy, focus, openness” check 3-4 set times each day to increase my self awareness.

- [[Meetings]]
	 - [[OM Brands]] + Senior Leadership Dashboard
		 - 

- ((3108d049-faf4-484b-a7da-ffe128ed2dc3))
	 - There are two broad strategies to reduce the possibility of pain inflicted by trolls and unkind critics or judgmental family members
		 - 1. Reduce the number of such people in our lives

		 - 2. Learn to be less ashamed of our imperfections

	 - __We can also be honest about ourselves.__
		 - Think through our weaknesses to understand our imperfections. This allows us to accept them as well as any feedback or criticisms that we receive about them. 

	 - __We can share our insecurities with others__
		 - When we are able tot publicly display our insecurities, it cannot be weaponized against us

		 - Vulnerabilities shows to others that we are humans 

- ((f26f19c8-b86c-44e9-92f9-42fdd138916f)) #[[Professional Development]] #success
	 - Is it better to leverage our [[strength]]s than ironing out our [[defect]]s?
		 - I think it's better to use our unique strengths to fulfill our goals rather than cover our gaps and defects. Though I think it maybe important to pick up the skill of programming.

		 - I would think it would take assessment of our environment, to see what the organization lacks and see if you have the ability to fulfill those needs effectively.

	 - We need to understand that [[planning]] for success is an illusion to make us feel comfortable about the future. 
		 - We need to account for luck and not assume it was our abilities, talents, and planning alone that shapes our future.

	 - Start thinking critically and go beyond [[best practice]]s. Best practices turn off our brain and makes us lazy. 
		 - Imagine following the best practices of the past decades (in any field) and applying them now. Best practices, in the long run, trap us into mediocrity and hinders invention, innovation, and reflection. We need to reassess our processes and decision making models periodically. ((3b0b53ca-529d-44ad-8cbc-b9e031e479f5))

- ((f1e986a6-7907-412e-aef8-afcce44dd2ad))
	 - Imposter syndrome is what makes us feel insecure, leading us to behavior of triple checking our emails and obsessing of perfection.

	 - Getting over imposter syndrome
		 - TODO To get over imposter syndrome we can get to know our strengths and weaknesses so we can create processes that uses our strengths and diminishes our weaknesses. 
			 - __Book recs: __Strength Finder 2.0 by Tom Rath and Stand Out by Marcus Buckingham

			 - We can also identify our triggers (i.e., self-doubt, temper, and impatience)

			 - We can calibrate our view/interpretation and make sure that it aligns with reality
				 - Sometimes our self-perception maybe incorrect—whether they are false positive view or negative views of ourselves
					 - We can ask others how they view us—our strengths, weaknesses, things to improve and other recommendations
						 - What are opportunities could I do more of which I do well?

						 - What are the biggest things holding me back from creating a bigger impact?

						 - What skills would a hypothetical perfect person in my role have?

						 - How would I rate myself against these skills?

- #Article An Adult's Guide to Social Skills, for Those Who Were Never Taught
	 - link: [Pocket - An Adult’s Guide to Social Skills, for Those Who Were Never Taught (getpocket.com)](https://getpocket.com/read/2862304465)

	 - Notes:
		 - [[self-awareness]]: Being able to identify your own emotions and how they work.
			 - Ex: Are you anxious in loud environments? Do you get angry when people talk over you? 

		 - [[self-regulation]]: The ability to not only know our emotions but also to manage them
			 - Ex. Knowing how to deescalate your anger when you get angry.

		 - [[motivation]]: Internal motivation means knowing how to manage our motivations and create or continue projects because we choose to, not because external forces demands it.

		 - [[empathy]]: awareness of other's emotions. This may mean developing the skills to recognize how others express their emotions and understanding how other's response to the circumstances they're in. 

		 - [[socialization]]: the ability to navigate social situations and our relationships in that context. How we achieve where we want to be with others. This may mean conveying our ideas to our coworkers, managing teams, or dealing with conflict in a relationship. 

		 - Dealing with social situations isn't formulaic because each situation can be dealt with different approaches. 

		 - Constructively confront someone
			 - Confrontation is highly uncomfortable, awkward, and plain intimidating. We can be tempted to run away instead of reaching out for a resolution to our interpersonal problems. We feel more comfortable avoiding our feelings. 
				 - If something is bothering us then usually a confrontation may need to happen. 

				 - It is our own fears that keep us from confronting others. 
					 - We fear that we'll lose something that we we have, we'll hurt someone we care about, or that it will hurt but accomplish nothing. 

				 - The first step in constructively confronting someone is acknowledging how our fears is influencing our choices and identify the real issues that led to the conflict. 

			 - When we're ready to have the conversation be aware of the environment and that there is ample time to have the discussion.
				 - Make sure not to hurl accusations but concentrate on "I" statements like "I feel hurt we didn't do anything for my birthday," and describing the behavior and your reactions to it. 
					 - A healthy confrontation requires awareness of our emotions.

		 - Speak up and be heard in a group
			 - Know that group conversations are a mess of noise and chaos, go with the flow. Don't get caught up and frustrated that you can't get in a word or are talked over.

			 - 
