- #[[Lessons Learned]]
	 - __How to learn better__ Start small. Building new habits usually fail because people want too much too soon. Commit to something that doesn’t feel like a stretch. If it feels too small, then it’s about right. Wait until you crave for more. #learning

	 - It's better to understand someone's thought processes and problem solving methodology than to get the straight answer right away. Ask for someone's experience at arriving at their abstractions rather than a simple solution. 

- #[[Decision Making]] [[Kahneman]] #bias #noise
	 - Noise along with bias are sources for error. If we imagine firing arrows at a target, bias would by the systematic tendency for the arrows to land (say) below the bullseye. Noise would be a tendency for the arrows to err in any direction, purely at random. In some ways, noise is easier to detect, but noise is often overlooked.
		 - Why do we overlook noise and pay so much attention to bias?
			 - We think casually about individual cases. We can observe bias in an individual case, but to observe noise we have to imagine multiple alternative realities in play. 

		 - Can we reduce noise?
			 - If we get multiple opinions and judgements, the noise will average out or go down. However getting multiple different view points is resource extensive and we tend to suppress the evidence of noise.
				 - To get noise we need to seek for alternative, disconfirming viewpoints and realities. 

				 - A blocker to reducing noise is that we prefer our sources of information to be highly correlated. Then all the messages we get are affirming and consistent with each other. This gives us comfort.
