- [[Mutual Learning]]
	 - tags: #course

	 - Literature notes:
		 - [[culture]] - shared team mindset 

		 - [[unilateral control]] - I understand you don't. I'm right. I will win. 
			 - This is based on a competitive environment like playing chess. We don't share knowledge strategy. In unilateral control someone wins. Let's learn and move forward together. 

			 - 98% of us use unilateral control when in challenging situations

		 - [[Mutual Learning]] - I understand something. So do you. 
			 - ^^Goals of Mutual learning - positive results. positive working relationships and positive well being.^^

			 - Genuine question is something you don't have an answer about.

			 - Non-genuine question is embedding your own point or viewpoint.

			 - Make sure your question isn't assumptive.

			 - Don't take on the responsibility but be courageous to take on the responsibility of finding or addressing the actual problem
				 - Test inferences

				 - It's okay to be annoyed, angry, or disappointed

		 - Sandwich feedback is enveloping negative feedback between positive statements, but this is a unilateral strategy because the strategy in the sandwich feedback is not transparent. When we do share the strategy the sandwich feedback is manipulative.

	 - #[[fleeting notes]]
		 - Roger puts out statements. No exploratory questions about the concerns that are brought up. 

		 - Roger asks questions and model behaviors to make changes.
			 - Decision by consensus.

	 - reference: 
		 - {{pdf  https://firebasestorage.googleapis.com/v0/b/firescript-577a2.appspot.com/o/imgs%2Fapp%2FReligion%2Fefxs5V_x0j.pdf?alt=media&token=ffc982d5-c7e8-4bbe-9d24-f91ee5cb0780}}
