- Daily Journal
	 - Check [[🚧 Projects]]

	 - Make sure you create value.

	 - [[The One Thing]]
		 - Improve Decision Making and Critical Thinking

	 - [[Deliberate Practice]] Each day you identify three outcomes you would like for the day to drive the three priorities of the week. Prioritize the list of which items create the most value. Spend time in your strengths, not weaknesses
		 - Seek perfection and high standards - improve processes, question decisions

		 - WER Presentation 

		 - PM Guide

	 - [[Daily Review]]
		 - The PM Guide is going slowly. I may have to reframe the project as a living, working document that slowly moves forward. Thankful that I have Monica to bounce ideas with.

		 - Seeking perfection and creating high standards requires constant questioning and continual learning. It would be helpful to start up the PM Meetings again

		 - The WER Presentation is helping me think through the Change Management approach for these projects

- [[Timothy Kim]] [[Orange Book Project]]
	 - Concerns for Integrity:
		 - High level connection

		 - Automation of testing

		 - Monthly meetings support


- #[[Decision Making]] make sure you’re playing the __real__ game, not some more complicated game you’ve made up for yourself.” [Are You Playing to Play, or Playing to Win? - Commonplace - The Commoncog Blog] #[[Lessons Learned]]
 (https://commoncog.com/blog/playing-to-play-playing-to-win/)
	 - TODO Process the rules of Project Managing in OBI. 
		 - Is there winning? What is the objective? How do you win?
