- [[Daily Call]] with [[Orange Book Project]]
	- Daily calls meetings
		- Neil sent out extended meeting invites
- [[Meeting]] with [[Chantal Phillips]]
	- REMS amendments should not be created in panorama check email Tim.
- [[Capability Team]] [[Meeting]] [[Orange]]
	- go through entire scenario
	- 356h scripts - to be added scenarios
- [[February 5th, 2021]]
	- [[Meeting]] with [[Sri]] and [[Onboarding Project]]
		- Clear **agenda **
			- __Open__
				- Thank you presence today.
					- Thank you Tessa for sending this meeting invite out.
					- Thank you Sri for your attendance and attention. Your calendar is so full, so we appreciate you sharing your time with us.
					- ---
					- Listened to your communications team interview and you mentioned your goal
						- ((012a6856-13c3-405b-96a6-f3ab5809e4b5))
						- Thank you for carrying out that goal and meeting with us especially with the new hires.
							- And to help  with that goal I think kicking off  this meeting with an introductions would be appropriate
			- __Introduction__
				- Name and previous work professional history before FDA
				- What are you excited about or looking forward to do in OBI (interesting question)
					- Exploring the question of better decision making skills, critical thinking in our approach of solving problems that arise in OBI
			- __Questions to Sri__
				- Sri what kind of problems do you find most interesting or enjoy solving?
			- __Purpose of knowledge sharing group__
				- Interesting question that I'm pursuing  while I'm with OBI is how to build resilient feedback loops and strengthen relationships
					- If we look at any great system or organization, we can find at it's base and foundation strong feedback loops and interconnected relationships of its members that connect everyone, from new hires to leadership.
					- Thank Tessa for the opportunity to explore this question
				- Sri's goals
					- ((012a6856-13c3-405b-96a6-f3ab5809e4b5))
					- ((1d622a0e-4fe6-4a21-9332-f0eb23e41a96))
					- The knowledge sharing and onboarding program can serve as one of the vehicles to drive to OBI's goals
					- ((a74dd80e-6b14-4d30-93cd-990190d374ea))
					- People centric, relationship minded approach to leadership
			- ((3508de6e-1af0-487f-82a7-85d7827ec019))
			- Open forum
			- Intake form  presentation
		- What needs to happen for this meeting to run well
			- What are the needs and wants of the attendees?
				- Provide Sri a channel to communicate his message
					- Can we anticipate his needs?
						- Tie into his short and mid-term goals
						- TODO Provide overview of Knowledge Share Group and its purpose and how we can utilize the meeting as a tool to solve problems and or uncover them
						  id:: 3508de6e-1af0-487f-82a7-85d7827ec019
				- Meets the needs of audience
					- Knowledge information sharing and updates
					- A way to communicate needs
			- Communicate the benefits and purpose of a Knowledge Sharing group
		- Discussion
			- Most influential business book or book in how you approach your goals or decision making
			- When you hire or interview someone what to you are the most critical or important characteristics are you impressed with or looking for?
			- Notes for Sri Mantha interview with CIPT [CIPT videos](https://web.microsoftstream.com/video/856d4607-420d-4528-b652-7c19462562ee)
				- Sri - Training is near and dear
				- FDA held in high esteem to protect the public health-- impressed by  listened and competency
				- influenced by leadership who at later stages of the career turned toward benefiting people
				- **short term goals **- find what he's suppose to do, everything is supposed to start with people
				  id:: 012a6856-13c3-405b-96a6-f3ab5809e4b5
				- **medium term** - how to position OBI within CDER, do we have the right competencies, do we have the right people and are we doing the right things
				  id:: 1d622a0e-4fe6-4a21-9332-f0eb23e41a96
				- **long term** - everyone in the organization should have a voice in agreeing to what the long term goal is and have buy in. Will divulge later 
				  id:: a74dd80e-6b14-4d30-93cd-990190d374ea
				- hobbies: hiking listening to podcast, maybe mountain biking