- [[Books: Elon Musk]]
	 - #[[Literature Notes]]
		 - #control Elon Musk did not want to help with the biography written about him but his scientific mind would not let the world be a victim of misinformation about his life. A mistake on a printed page would gnaw at his soul.

		 - Musk like Steve Jobs and Jeff Bezos was also a control freak but admired [[resolve]] in people—their ability to push forward even when they were told no. (I'm assuming that the resolve is for a well thought out cause and not a foolish, ill-informed on)]

		 - One of Musk's goal is for humanity to be space colonizers, terraforming Mars.

		 - Musk earned his billion from Zip2 early in the internet age. Zip2 was a amalgam of Yelp and Google Maps that was later bought out. With the money he founded PayPal later bought out by eBay.
			 - He later used this money to put millions in Tesla, SpaceX and SolarCity.

			 - Musk used [[First Principles Thinking]] whenever possible to make things from scratch and try to rethink much of the aerospace, automotive, and solar industries had accepted as convention. 

		 - #failure
			 - SpaceX's first rocket launch failed, but this attempt didn't deter Musk from trying. 

		 - #intention #intent
			 - Musk feels is important to make a distinction between stumbling into something and having intent in doing. He wants the world to know that he isn't an investor, he wanted to invent something important for the future and useful in some sort of way. 

		 - #leadership Musk is egocentric and has a large personality like Bezos and Jobs. He's less of a CEO chasing riches than a general marshaling troops to secure victory. 
			 - #innovation He has grand goals of transforming forgotten industries like aerospace and automotive that America has seemed to have given up on and recast them as something new and fantastic.
				 - Similar to Bezos, Musk saw the internet undergoing significant change in the future and aligned his career plans with those technology. 

				 - #integration Musk goes beyond the incremental release of iPhones and the social benefits of Facebook. He sees integrations of his different companies coming together for a grander future.

			 - Musk isn't afraid of the challenge of the knowledge of failed or mediocre companies in these industries.

			 - It is thought that at these attempts of transformation, it is Musk's talent of software engineering and its application to machines that they are possible. 

		 - #knowledge
			 - Once Zip2 had gained millions in investor funding, they hired more talented software engineers than Musk. Though resentful, Musk understood that they were better at writing software than he was and optimized the current code of Zip2. 

		 - #questions #[[decision making]]
			 - Musk acknowledges that in innovation and decision making. "one of the really tough things is figuring what questions to ask...Once you figure out the question, the the answer is relatively easy." 

		 - #writing
			 - Musk was a skilled writer, a talent he showed in his business plans written for his papers. Musk had the ability to master difficult physics concepts in the midst of actual business plans. 

		 - #[[work ethic]] #confidence
			 - Musk, Jeff Bezos, would stay up all night to code during his first start up Zip2. He had boundless energy and dedication to his work

			 - The word "no" didn't exist in Musk. And he expected that everyone else around him. Musk didn't get to where he is with always being a nice guy all the time. He was so driven and sure of himself.
