- [[Google Project Management Certificate]]
	 - Project Management styles
		 - Waterfall Project Management
			 - Follows ordered steps with determined goals that will not likely change

			 - When phases are clearly defined

			 - When changes are too expensive to change

		 - Agile Project Management
			 - Have many tasks working at the same time, an iterative approach

			 - More of a mindset that seeks feedback

			 - Use agile when there is high uncertainty and risk
				 - The stakeholder doesn't have a clear view of what the final product will look like

		 - Lean Six Sigma
			 - A combination of Lean and Six Sigma

			 - Used when there is a motivation to save money and improve processes

			 - Lean Six Sigma and the DMAIC approach are ideal when the project goal includes improving the current process to fix complex or high risk problems like improving sales, conversions, or eliminating a bottleneck, which is when things get backed up during a process. 

			 - 5 Phases of Lean Six Sigma
				 - Define
					 - Define the project goal or problem. 

					 - defining tells you what to measure,

				 - Measure
					 - Measure how the current process is performing

					 - measuring tells you what to analyze,

				 - Analyze
					 - analyzing tells you what to improve,

				 - Improve
					 - improving tells you what to control.

				 - Control
					 - implement process improvement

			 - Use DMAIC on data to improve processes

			 - [[Lean Project Management]]
				 - **Lean** methodology is often referred to as Lean Manufacturing because it originated in the manufacturing world. The main principle in Lean methodology is the removal of waste within an operation. By optimizing process steps and eliminating waste, only value is added at each phase of production.

				 - The Lean Manufacturing methodology recognizes eight types of waste within an operation: defects, excess processing, overproduction, waiting, inventory, transportation, motion, and non-utilized talent.
					 - In the manufacturing industry, these types of waste are often attributed to issues such as:
						 - Lack of proper documentation

						 - Lack of process standards

						 - Not understanding the customers’ needs

						 - Lack of effective communication

						 - Lack of process control

						 - Inefficient process design

						 - Failures of management

					 - These same issues create waste in project management.

				 - Implement Lean project management when you want to use limited resources, reduce waste, and streamline processes to gain maximum benefits.

				 - You can achieve this by using the pillars of the Lean 5S quality tool. 
					 - The term 5S refers to the five pillars that are required for good housekeeping: sort, set in order, shine, standardize, and sustain. Implementing the 5S method means cleaning up and organizing the workplace to achieve the smallest amount of wasted time and material. The 5S method includes these five steps:
						 - **Sort:** Remove all items not needed for current production operations and leave only the bare essentials.

						 - **Set in order: **Arrange needed items so that they are easy to use. Label items so that anyone can find them or put them away.

						 - **Shine:** Keep everything in the correct place. Clean your workspace every day.

						 - **Standardize: **Perform the process in the same way every time.

						 - **Sustain:** Make a habit of maintaining correct procedures and instill this discipline in your team.

			 - [[Six Sigma]] 
				 - **Six Sigma** is a methodology used to reduce variations by ensuring that quality processes are followed every time. The term “Six Sigma” originates from statistics and generally means that items or processes should have 99.9996% quality.

				 - The seven key principles of Six Sigma are:
					 - Always focus on the customer.

					 - Identify and understand how the work gets done. Understand how work really happens.

					 - Make your processes flow smoothly.

					 - Reduce waste and concentrate on value.

					 - Stop defects by removing variation.

					 - Involve and collaborate with your team.

					 - Approach improvement activity in a systematic way.

				 - Use this methodology to find aspects of the product or process that are __measurable__ like time, cost, or quantity. Then inspect that measurable item and reject any products that do not meet the Six Sigma standard. Any process that created unacceptable products has to be improved upon.

			 - After both Lean and Six Sigma were put into practice, it was discovered that the two methodologies could be combined to increase benefits. The tools used in Lean, such as Kanban boards and 5S, build quality in processes from the beginning. Products developed using Lean methods are then inspected or tested using Six Sigma standards. The products that do not meet these standards are rejected.
				 - The largest difference between these methodologies is that Lean streamlines processes while Six Sigma reduces variation in products by building in quality from the beginning and inspecting products to ensure quality standards are met. You may find that one of these two methods—or using them both together—can improve the efficiency of your projects.
