- [[Daily Review]]
	 - Ask someone else’s opinion before offering my own.
		 - 14:21 15:23

	 - Conduct an “energy, focus, openness” check just prior to every meeting I attend  **OR**  Conduct an “energy, focus, openness” check 3-4 set times each day to increase my self awareness.
		 - 09:48

	 - Reflect on how my emotions impacted my work (attitude, interactions with others, communication) at the end of the day.
		 - Today awareness of my energy and asking for people's opinions made more cognizant of my thoughts

- [[Meetings]]
	 - [[Daily Call]] with [[Orange Book Project]]
		 - Request to editable for parsed forms. 

		 - Request for save feature in publication team

	 - [[OM Implementation Team]]
		 - Senior Leadership slides ?

- [[Daily Preview]]
	 - Tomorrow my day starts at 9:30 am with Orange Book and Search 360 requirements. 

	 - I have an important meeting about Paragraph IV certifications

- [[premortem]] and [[backcasting]] for OGD Informatics Board #[[Orange Book Project]]
	 - Goal - Have a successful demo

	 - Time period - 3 weeks from now to prepare

	 - Possible failures:
		 - __If another team was also in the preprod environment or changes in the preprod environment__
			 - Email out to confirm no one else making changes at that time or no downtime updates to the preprod environment by WFM team

		 - __Technical failure and no one to help__
			 - Create back-up scenario tabs 

		 - __Failure to present the correct information__
			 - Provide the correct overview and predict possible interests and questions

			 - Shaik is interested in ** I would like to see overall process inclusive
of the workflows, Orange Book repository, data integration with Integrity (if
any) and QC steps. **

		 - __Bad presentation skills__
			 - Practice before hand and have the demo data in place
				 - Ask Stephanie Doby to stage data

		 - __Failure to meet the needs of key members__
			 - Key members are Kendra Stewart, Samir Shaik

			 - What would Kendra appreciate that I communicate?
				 - Correct information
					 - Send initial slide to Kendra and Tim

			 - What would Samir like if I communicated and answered? What would someone in his leadership position want to hear?
				 - From a leadership perspective what are they interested in?
					 - Effects: Efficiency, benefits, and evolution

					 - What problem does the solution solve.

					 - What the future holds

					 - Reasoning for design choices

	 - [[backcasting]]
		 - Successes
			 - __PowerPoint well design and communicated important and relevant information__

			 - __Interactive meeting and met all the needs of participants__
				 - What does Christine and Sunitha

				 - Are we answering the right questions

			 - __Provide wholistic look of the solutions and highlight relevant content__

			 - __Create a feeling that the meeting was productive and something new was and could be taken away__
				 - Provide new insights and information

			 - __Project a strong and competent image of  OBI__

- [[March 4th, 2021]]
	 - [[Meetings]]
		 - [[Capability Team]] Meeting

		 - [[OGDP team]] Paragraph IV Certification
			 - Current workflow is in Panorama.
				 - Can we distribute the work through the reviewers and not through one person. 
					 - Then report out?

					 - What are the barriers to adding this to the workflow?

					 - Are the needed items in the published pdf already entered and available under Panorama.

			 - What problem are we trying to solve in Panorama?

			 - Are there other systems we can use or leverage?
				 - Can this be done through Palantir?
