- #[[Lessons Learned]]
	 - "Everything good needs time. Don’t do work in a hurry. Go into details; it pays in every way. Time means power for your work. Mediocrity is always in a rush; but whatever is worth doing at all is worth doing with consideration. For genius is nothing more nor less than doing well what anyone can do badly."
		 - __Source: From the essay "A Successful Novelist" in __[How They Succeeded](https://click.convertkit-mail4.com/xmux0o792ws6h0kglgin/wnh2hghrvvm0qpb7/aHR0cHM6Ly9hcmNoaXZlLm9yZy9kZXRhaWxzL2hvd3RoZXlzdWNjZWVkZWQwMG1hcmRyaWNo)

- [[Meetings]] [[OGD REMs]]
	 - Confirm with Chantal on acknowledgments of withdrawals

- [[Courses]] #[[The Complete Python Course]] #Udemy
	 - Nine categories in Pythong
		 - **Objects** can be identified through type (object)

		 - **Identifiers** are names assigned to objects (our variables pointing to the object)

		 - **Keywords** are words like if, else, import to give specific commands. They are reserved words in Python

		 - **Delimiters** " = : () 

		 - **Blank lines** used to separate lines of codes, Python will ignore blank lines

		 - **Whitespace** spaces between elements of the language, it doesn't matter how much white space we use between elements. 

		 - **Indentation** must be at least one white space

		 - **Comments**

		 - **Operators**

- 23:10 [[Google Project Management Certificate]]
	 - **Four phases of project management**
		 - __Initiate__
			 - Organize all the information you know about the project. 

			 - Define the project goals.

			 - Determine resources, people and other project details.

			 - Questions to ask:
				 - Who are the stakeholders?

				 - What are the client’s or customer’s goals?

				 - What is the purpose and mission of the project?

				 - What are the measurable objectives for the team?

				 - What is the project trying to improve?

				 - When does this project need to be completed?

				 - What skills and resources will the project require?

				 - What is your budget?

		 - __Making a plan__
			 - Create a budget and set the project schedule

			 - Establish the team and determine each person's role and responsibility

			 - Once we receive the green light for the project then we can start planning through scheduling and organizing tasks and resources 

		 - __Executing and completing tasks__
			 - Monitor your project team as they complete project tasks.

			 - Break down any barriers that would slow or stop the team from completing tasks.

			 - Help keep the team aware of schedule and deliverable expectations.

			 - Address weaknesses in your process or examine places where your team may need additional training to meet the project’s goals.

			 - Adapt to changes in the project as they arise.

		 - __Closing__
			 - Ensure all tasks are completed

			 - Confirm acceptance of the project outcome

			 - Reflect on lessons learned

			 - We discuss what we learned on how the project ran. 
