- [[Article: Do You Have a Good Intake Process?]]
	 - tags: #[[Project Management]] #[[📥inbox]] #article

	 - source: [ProjectManagement.com - Do You Have a Good Intake Process?](https://www.projectmanagement.com/articles/710708/Do-You-Have-a-Good-Intake-Process-)

	 - #[[Literature Notes]]

	 - #[[fleeting notes]]
		 - Many project managers start with project initiation, assuming that someone has already done the due diligence and determined that the project is ready, and that it should even move forward at all. This can lead to teams spending effort on projects that are poorly constructed, unsupported or misunderstood, or on projects that aren’t likely to be successful no matter what the project team does.
			 - A good intake process ensures a consistent baseline quality of all projects that move into execution. The process can contain a well-known set of review controls, planning and budgeting methodologies and published criteria for what a project needs to have in order to have resources assigned and work begun. When a project is first suggested, the intake process ensures that it possesses everything it needs to be successful, including goals, measurements, requirements and dependencies. Having project requests being fully examined also helps the project team and leaders look for opportunities, risks, or potential for synergies with other projects that may have recently completed or are currently in progress

		 - **Makes prioritization criteria clear**
			 - It can be frustrating to product owners or stakeholders when they lack visibility into why certain projects are approved and others fail to gain leadership support. It can seem that certain projects become favorites of executives, while others are not, even if those are of seemingly higher value or will yield a better return. Having objective criteria helps prevent this. By setting a benchmark for what makes a project worthy of being prioritized, product owners should be able to know what kind of research and planning they need to do ahead of time in order to get their projects approved.

		 - **Prevents low value work**
			 - Deciding what projects to work on is at least as important as executing the project itself. The best way to ensure that everything in a program portfolio is of high value is to limit the number of low value efforts that get approved.

- [[Article: Walk Before You Run: The Path To Confident and Creative Problem Solving]]
	 - tags: #[[📥inbox]] #[[Project Management]]

	 - source: [ProjectManagement.com - Walk Before You Run: The Path To Confident and Creative Problem Solving](https://www.projectmanagement.com/articles/709390/Walk-Before-You-Run--The-Path-To-Confident-and-Creative-Problem-Solving)

	 - #[[Literature Notes]]
		 - 
