- [[Meetings]]
	 - [[Tessa Brown]]
		 - Told of GS-14 position

	 - [[Implementation Appian Projects]] [[Orange Book Project]]
		 - Race conditions
			 - January release for fix. 

		 - When to start Orange Book Phase 2 Discussions

		 - Create plan of activities

	 - [[Orange Book Staff]]
		 - Add notes to Integrity (not viewable in DARRTS) if there are discrepancies before Orange Book and DARRTS

- [[November 2nd, 2021]]
	 - [[Meetings]]
		 - [[OM WER]]
			 - Good Afternoon Everyone, we're excited to finally start this WER Project since almost a year ago we negotiated with PMO to start us as part  FY 22. 

			 - Today we'd like to go over our current understanding of the WER process to make sure that we aren't making any assumptions and clarifying any gaps of our knowledge of the WER processes
				 - We'd like to cover the current internal review

				 - Documents generated or part of the WER review

				 - Data types

				 - Consult process

				 - To help with this process we have the Portal team and Allison representing various capability teams

			 - Before I hand over the rest of the meeting to Hannah. Jeen you brought up that you'd like to have the project completed by a certain date next year because that's when the majority of these submissions are review or submitted? Can you go over that again?
