- [[Coursera]] + [[Google Project Management Certificate]]
	 - Taking the time to dig a little deeper into the "why" behind the project can help better support and understand the customer. This can lead to a better solution.
		 - It’s your job to ask questions like:

		 - "What is the problem you would like us to help solve? Example response: The customer wants help developing a new process that would allow their company to be more efficient."

		 - "How is the problem impacting your organization? Example response: The customer states that they are losing clients because of their current inefficient processes since clients are sometimes receiving their orders late."

		 - "What prompted you to ask for help now? Example response: The customer says that they may lose department funding if they do not improve efficiency. "

		 - What is your hope for the outcome of this project? Example response: The customer states that their ultimate goal is to increase the speed at which they fill orders without sacrificing quality.

	 - __Building a great team__
		 - A successful project manager knows that and takes the time to understand each person’s motivations, strengths, and weaknesses. Project managers add value to the project by identifying the right team for the project and enabling the team to be successful and make decisions.

	 - __Communication__
		 - The project managers who add the most value are the ones who take the time to build relationships, communicate, and treat others with consideration and respect.

		 - A successful project manager sees the impacts of each process within the project and communicates those impacts to the team. This ensures that everyone working on the project understands their task goal as well as the big picture goal for the finished product. For example, if a graphic designer working on marketing materials for your project doesn't understand the customer’s overall goal to appeal to educators, they may not be able to fully capture the vision for the campaign. Helping this team member understand the big picture allows them to tailor their tasks to meet the needs of the project end goal.

		 - Managing a project can be busy, but if you take the time to build relationships and maintain open lines of communication, you will increase the chances of the project’s success as well as the customer’s and your team members’ satisfaction.

	 - __Break down barriers__
		 - Sometimes, when you ask why something is being done a certain way, the response you get is, “Because we’ve always done it this way.” A project manager adds [[value]] to a project when they break down barriers, allow their team to innovate new ways to do things, and empower them to share ideas. As a project manager, you have to model ingenuity and collaboration, and encourage your team to do the same.

		 - How can you break down barriers on a project? You can provide support for your team as they try new approaches to find solutions, and you can advocate for additional resources for your team. If your team is having a hard time getting an answer from another organization, you can reach out to the organization yourself in order to keep the team on track and on schedule.

	 - __Project manager responsibilities__
		 - **Teaching and mentoring**
			 - As a project manager, you can serve as a mentor to your team. When you take the time to fully explain the expectations, you eliminate rework, confusion, and frustration. Mentoring and teaching others the lessons that you, as a project manager, have learned allows your team to make better choices and build on your experience. Mentoring also involves supporting each individual on your team in meeting expectations and helping them to exceed their own sense of personal potential.

		 - **Building relationships**
			 - Relationships are everything! Getting to know your team members lets them know that you care about them as people, not just employees. Taking the time to build relationships with your customers, clients, vendors, and other stakeholders is equally important. Dedicate time to checking in with people. Pay attention to the insights they offer you about their work style since their actions can inform how to most effectively interact with them. Ask about their lives beyond the project, and then follow up on those discussions later on to show your interest. When you foster these relationships, you are all more invested in the success of your project.

		 - **Controlling change**
			 - The American novelist Louis L’Amour wrote, “The only thing that never changes is that everything changes.” This applies to projects as well. Projects change as you continue to understand the expectations and the needs of our stakeholders. As a project manager, you need to remain flexible and adjust to the stakeholders’ needs.__ However,  it is also important to protect your team from constant change and rework. A good way to do this is by documenting the initial expectations of the project and clearly identifying the changes being requested.__  It is also helpful to understand the budget and schedule impact of the changes and make sure that the stakeholders understand those impacts. As the project manager, you are responsible for protecting your team. #[[Lessons Learned]] #[[Project Management]]

		 - **Empowering your team**
			 - We all enjoy being heard and appreciated in our careers. Giving your team the ability to work directly with the stakeholders and their teams lets them know that you trust and believe in their skills! One of the best things about empowering your team is getting fresh ideas and passionate employees willing to help find solutions to problems. Another way you can empower your team is by delegating responsibilities to them, allowing them to make some decisions for the project, and using their input in the planning and execution of the project. Effective mentoring often leads to more empowered teams.
