- [[Daily Review]]
	 - Ask someone else’s opinion before offering my own.

	 - [[Deliberate Practice]]
		 - Seek perfection and high standards. No task is beneath me.

		 - Improve my writing

		 - Improve my thinking

	 - Reflect on how my emotions impacted my work (attitude, interactions with others,
  communication) at the end of the day.

- [[Meetings]]
	 - [[Daily Call]] + [[Orange Book Project]]

	 - Tessa Retirement planning
		 - Zoom webinar format recommended - need webinar license
			 - Trial runs recommended - pre-meeting -  April 16th
				 - two events for dry runs, one final on the 30th. 

			 - chat boxes public and private

		 - I'll update the meeting invite with zoom link. 

	 - [[Orange Book Project]] + [[Capability Team]]
		 - 

- [[April 12th, 2021]]
	 - [[Meetings]]
		 - [[Knowledge Sharing Group]] + [[Integrity Services]]
			 - Slide 2 
				 - ORA

				 - Data Sources: Portal, ESG

				 - What does post  SPL mean?

				 - Data References: resources if we want to learn more

				 - Integrity MDM - relationship with Data Stakeholders and Data References?

				 - Workflow & Business Process Management means Pano and Nexus

			 - Slide 3
				 - explanation on bots

			 - Master Data 

			 - •	Differences between master data and non-master data, what are examples and how they present in different systems (like Panorama, Appian, or DARRTS)

			 - •	A brief review of where data is being pulled in from (ESG, Portal?) any other sources? 

			 - o	Are all processes automated, is there manual data generation or processes

			 - Data Management Questions

			 - •	What are the automated and manual operations (I think slide 8 covers this)

			 - •	Details on data harmonization between DARRTS, Panorama, and now Appian

			 - o	app/subm UI for when an ANDA comes in and the data entry from panorama

			 - 	andas - facility, company,  product, application, etc

			 - o	How do we keep data between these systems aligned? 

			 - Appian and other future software solution development/Integrated Systems with IS

			 - •	What questions should the Implementation team ask themselves to know when to include Integrity Services for new Appian development? 

			 - •	How does Appian and Palantir fit into the platform (slide 8) and IS

			 - •	Integration between Integrity Services and Help Desk. When do we remind help desk staff to let IS know the data changes we are making?

			 - o	Are there any other Integrations with other systems we should know that Integrity Services is part of?

			 - •	Recommendations from IS on how to better support IS workflows and processes

			 - 7am to 6 pm for Integrity Services processes (manual)
				 - There are automated processes that prevent manual processing

				 - Releases and patching prevent data entry from IS
