- [[Article: The Real Difference Between Leadership and Management, and Why Most People Struggle to make the Grade]]

- We need to think through Agile methodology in a government setting when the framework was born in a competitive environment
	 - tags: ##[[📥inbox] #[[Agile Development]] #[[Project Management]]

	 - Agile project delivery and the MVP is catered to early adopters, not to the entirety of the whole population. If we look at the rise of early start-up social apps like facebook and instagram, they started with early adopters who are forgiving of the early state of the software. Mass adoption came later when the application had more functionality builtin. 
		 - In OBI, our MPV is delivered to the entirety of our supported office's staff. The cross-section not only includes early adopters, but people who expect full functionality and minimal bugs. Wha8t do we do to make the version 1 release more palatable to the greater population of the supported office?

- [[September 13th, 2021]]
	 - Monday Vision
id:: 1251a514-c0db-4e2f-b306-77fd6dd80c7b
		 - Check [[🚧 Projects]]

		 - Make sure you create value.

		 - [[The One Thing]]
			 - Create value as a leader

		 - Each week you identify three outcomes you would like completed by the end of the week. Prioritize the list of which items create the most value. Spend time in your strengths, not weaknesses
			 - PM Project

			 - Read books - spend less time gaming

			 - Chip away at onboarding - think of are the next steps
