- Daily Journal
	 - Check [[🚧 Projects]]

	 - Make sure you create value.

	 - [[The One Thing]]
		 - Be kind! 😄

		 - Create value

	 - [[Deliberate Practice]] Each day you identify three outcomes you would like for the day to drive the three priorities of the week. Prioritize the list of which items create the most value. Spend time in your strengths, not weaknesses
		 - Seek perfection and high standards

		 - PM guide

		 - OM Presentation

	 - [[Daily Review]]


- [[Meetings]]
	 - [[SMT]]
		 - Good Morning everyone, the Orange Book Project is on track for our October O&M release. 

		 - The Orange Book Staff is fully transitioned back into the production environment since October 4. Tim reports positive feedback from the staff so far.
			 - No reported deficiencies

			 - We have a daily manual cross check between DARRTS and Nexus to discover any missed projects between the two systems

		 - No other significant meetings to report other than what's shown here

		 - Upcoming Planned activities is this Friday for the October release

		 - Orange Book Staff should be ready to start discussion of Phase 2 and its scope. A few key members are on leave so they're delaying discussion until November.

		 - Also OB staff is asking OGD leadership to confirm continued prioritization of Orange Book in the upcoming years. The outcome of this prioritization can help inform scoping of phase 2.

- 14:37 ((f26f19c8-b86c-44e9-92f9-42fdd138916f))
	 - You don't learn from doing easy things but from difficult challenges. There is a lot to gain in completely changing your environment.
