- [[Article: No Harm in Asking]]
	 - tags: #communication #article 

	 - We often shy away from subjects that could make others uncomfortable, such as money, lifestyle choices, and relationships. Is such circumspection really warranted, or are our conversational partners hardier than we think?

	 - #truth Across five experiments, people overestimated the interpersonal costs of asking sensitive questions, potentially depriving themselves of useful information. 
		 - In the first experiment, 360 participants were split into pairs, and one person was designated to ask the other five questions off a list. Some had sensitive questions to choose from (Have you ever cheated on a partner? What is your salary?), some had innocuous questions (Are you a morning person? What route do you take to work?), and some had a mix. After the conversations the respondents reported on their level of comfort and their impressions of the questioner, while questioners described how they thought the respondent felt and what impression they believed they had made. 
			 - The questioners vastly overestimated respondents' discomfort with sensitive questions and underestimated their own likability. Those who had a mix to choose from asked more innocuous questions than sensitive ones, with 40% asking only one sensitive question or none at all. And the more sensitive questions people had asked, the more uncomfortable they imagined their partners to be -- though in reality, respondents' comfort levels were unaffected by the number of sensitive questions they fielded. Intriguingly, the questioners did not report being especially uncomfortable themselves.

	 - Subsequent experiments showed that the pattern held in both face-to-face and online conversations and regardless of whether the questioner was a stranger or a friend. People even avoided inquiring about sticky issues when offered monetary rewards to do so. 
		 - "Many individuals limit their conversations to topics such as the weather and consequently miss valuable opportunities to gain information and potentially strengthen their relationships," the researchers write. 

		 - #confidence __"We exhort individuals to go ahead and ask!"__

	 - **ABOUT THE RESEARCH **"The (Better Than Expected) Consequences of Asking Sensitive Questions," by Einav Hart, Eric M. VanEpps, and Maurice E. Schweitzer (Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, 2021)
