- [[July 22nd, 2021]]
	- [[Meetings]]
		- [[SMT]] + [[Orange Book Project]]
			- For the Orange Book Transition Project we are looking forward to our 3542 enhancement deployment this coming August which will see the return of the Orange Book Staff into Nexus.
				- This enhancement provides a more robust project creation functionality for both readable and scanned pdf forms. Project creation was a contributing factor for the Orange Book staff them leaving the Nexus environment. So we're excited to see this enhancement.
				- On  July 14 we had a meeting with Integrity, PIES, and Nexus WMF team to coordinate for the August 20th release and to ensure a ready environment for user testing.
				- We met with our users yesterday to discuss how the testing scenarios should be designed and also the upcoming August O&M items.
				- Earlier in the month we demo'ed our UAT scenarios for the July O&M release.
				- Ongoing activities are making sure we're prepared for 3542 enhancements, collaborating with Integrity and UAT testing
				- We're hoping to start designing and setting up UAT after Integrity finishes their testing and plan to reuse the same submissions for our UAT.
		- [[Sri]] [[1-1]]
			- Thank Sri for his time
			- 5 Year Plan
				- No real 5 year plans, I do have goals for identifying and defining my identity as valuable contributor for the team. Create value through self-improvement, continuous education and building and improving my skills.
					- My main interests of self-improvement is leadership without authority and deep and intelligent decision making hygiene, critical thinking, and judgements.
						- Interests in behavioral science and cultures. The underlying motivations and unseen motivators and influencers in our decision making and planning.
					- I think OBI is ripe with opportunities to apply those interests.
						- Establishing a culture for learning.
							- Identifying gaps in skills, talents, thinking and align where I can fill those needs as well as promoting my own growth
							- Humble humility of our knowledge.
								- Broader perspective
								- Feedback loops
								- Decision making tools
								- Writing as a way to improve thinking
								- Decision Journals
							- Acknowledging authority gaps.
							- Acknowledging the influence of behaviors
				- Balance this with the need for mentorship or an established fast paced established environment like Google or start-up tech feel.
			- How OBI can improve
				- Practice self-reflection
					- Identify gapps
				- Higher expectations, less excuses, take responsibility