- [[Meetings]]
	 - [[Sunitha Mathews]] [[1-1]]
		 - Sunitha
			 - Give thanks

			 - What are the problems that you are seeing and what PMO/Leadership is trying to address?
				 - Resource constraint and funding

		 - Feedback from Shanthi from Sri on level of confidence regarding solutions
			 - Does this extend to capability created solutions

			 - Some product owners are technically minded, Shanthi was hesitant to cover details, but Orange Book PO is technically minded. Hard to find the balance there.

		 - [[PM Guide]]
			 - Requirements gathering needs improvement

			 - Testing and validation timing is off.

			 - Contractors are way busy and we move forward without clarification  

			 - PM has to drive across the board

			 - Reframe requirements differently for capability teams and questions

			 - Provide steps for solutions

			 - Backup for steps

			 - Asssists on other projects, not neccesarily PM

			 - Ask Shanthi for elicitation questions

- [[August 19th, 2021]]
	 - [[Meetings]] 
		 - [[SMT]] [[Orange Book Project]]
			 - Good Morning everyone for the Orange Book Project we are on track for the August O&M release this coming weekend.

			 - The 3542 enhanced parser went live on the evening of August 29 and we're going through the UAT for that parser enhancements.

			 - Our key meetings with capability teams is with the Integrity team on answering questions from our Product Owner on the parser behavior and outcomes of the test scenarios from the parser UAT.

			 - Similarly we have discussions with the product owner on the parsing logic enhancements and agreement on a planned return to Nexus.

			 - Next week we will meet with the Product Owner to share the parsing statistics to help make that commitment from Integrity. So far the data looks very promising from DARRTS to Nexus all projects are corresponding 1:1, the reverse perspective from Nexus to DARRTS, there is only one project miscreated from the Nexus side since the August 29 go live of the parser. So we aren't missing any projects that should be created compared to our initial go live. We hope that this data is persuasive for the PO to return to the live environment in early September.
