- [[June 14th, 2021]]
	 - [[Meetings]]
		 - [[Orange Book Project]] + [[Integrity Team]]
			 - Good Afternoon everyone, thank you so much for your time today. The goal for today's meeting is listen and uncover the needs and concerns from Tim and Kendra for the Orange Book Solution in Nexus as we approach Phase  2 and work on the current enhancements in Phase 1.

			 - So hopefully today with representation from  different groups involved in building a large solution like this we can answer those concerns. So thank you Shanthi and Integrity Team and as well as PMO team Ranjit and Mahmoud for lending us your support.

			 - Discussion Items we'd like to highlight
				 - The immediate concerns with the Orange Book Projects - with the current activities and enhancements we're working on 

				 - As well as discovering concerns to address before  returning to the Orange Book Nexus Solution

			 - Orange Book  Immediate Concerns 
				 - First to level set for those unfamiliar with the current events, the two most recent and visible activities are:

				 - Updated 3542 forms socialized Applicants before we could update the parser, this was the main cause for Orange Book staff to return back to the OBMOD systems.
					 - Before the patch, the Orange Book Nexus would create blank projects in the pharmacist review queue in response to an updated 3542 form submission, this is an unwanted behavior.

					 - That's been fixed and resolved on May 27 to allow parsing both the old forms and newly updateg 3542 form.

				 - The second item currently in development with the help of Integrity addressing the enhancement of 3542 forms where an Applicant will submit a 3542 form mislabel it as 3542a but really it's a 3542 form. In that event,  without the enhancement we will miss  project creation for these submissions. Similarly when Applicants don't include in the file title 3542 these submissions we will also missed.
					 - We are planning for an August timeline and proposing an interim fix so the Orange Book staff can return to Nexus while we wait for the permanent enhancement to be deployed.
						 - That discussion will be later.

			 - But at this time I do want to ask Tim and Kendra what concerns you have? Questions on the process of arriving and working on the solution? Integrations or the teams? Or anything in general.

			 - Before I leave this slide, are they are any other discussion topics from any one in the group that anyone thinks should have great visibility and acknowledgement?

			 - For this slide, we'd like to start the beginning of a conversation of our proposal for OBI to provide support of manual entry of mislabeled 3542a forms and any other submissions that misses project creation as we wait for the permanent enhancement in August.
				 - We see that continued use of Orange Book in Nexus will highlight opportunities for us to create iterative improvements that we're currently missing out while the Orange Book Team is away.

				 - But today we'd like to listen and understand the concerns and hesitancies, and openness in going back to using Nexus?
