- #article [[Peter Kaufman]] #[[multidisciplinary thinking]] #understanding #[[decision making]] #[[📥inbox]]
	- Why is it important to be a multidisciplinary thinker? - "To understand is to know what to do" - [[Ludwig Wittgenstein]]
	- [[mistake]]s and inefficiencies come from blind spots of our knowledge, a lack of understanding
	- We can place our knowledge into different categories, dependent on how long they existed as true therefore the longer this information existed (not their discovery), the more true and reliable they are.
		- The first bucket of information is the physical world, such subjects as physics, maths, and geology. For example Newton's Third Law of Motion has been true since the existence of the universe. For every action there always be an equal and opposite reaction
	- [[Albert Einstein]] states that simple transcends genius. __Why is simple, the right kind of simple better than genius?__ Because you can understand simple!
		- Einstein also said that compound interest is the most powerful force in the universe. The people who understand compound interest get paid by it and people who don't pay for it. Compound interest is the improvement and constant progress over time (e.g., evolution)
	- We can take Newton's Third Law of Motion and apply this to people as the law of reciprocity. If we are nice to people, they will be nice to us. (generally, but if people are mean to us, most people will respond the same way)
	- ^^Everyone in the world is looking for someone they can 100% absolutely and completely trust, but also principled, courageous, competent, kind, loyal, understanding, forgiving and unselfish. ^^
		- We can be  this person for other people, but we must remain constant in these qualities.
		- Everyone wants to be loved, understood, paid attention to, listened to, gain fulfillment, satisfaction, and respect. Everyone has the same basic needs but we express them in diverse ways.
			- If you want everything in life from everybody else, is first pay attention; listen to them; show them respect; give them, satisfaction, and fulfillment. Convey to them that they matter to you. And show you love them. But you have to go first.
				- If we don't give first we won't receive anything in return. We are afraid to look foolish even though there's an asymmetry in giving first. 98% of the time people will reciprocate in kind, and 2% will return a negative feeling. If we are afraid of looking bad or foolish, or embarrassing ourselves then we are beating up ourselves preemptively.
	- The three hallmarks of a great investment are superior returns, low risk, and long duration. Most people only concentrate on the first quality, but if we consider ourselves a great leader these characteristics should be considered co-priorities.
		- ^^We can get low-risk and long duration through win-win situation. To achieve this win-win framework we need to understand others. "If you could see the world the way I see it, you'd understand why I behave the way I do."^^
			- It follows then if we want influence someone then it is necessary that we change the way they view the world. If we want to be great leaders we need to see the world through our customers, employees, owners, regulators, and the communities we operate in.
				- We need to understand and see their needs, aspirations, insecurities, and time horizons. Knowing these things will help lessen our blind spots and in turn the frequency of our mistakes.
				- If you want to go quickly go alone, if you want to go far, go together. No road is long with good company.