- [[Article]] +  [[How we do Agile]] at [[Palantir]]
	 - tags: #[[📥inbox]]

	 - Link: https://blog.palantir.com/how-we-do-agile-1-35fa76e48cad

	 - Takeaways:
		 - Frequent communication, reflection, and feedback loops with team members is crucial to a successful team.

	 - Notes:
		 - Organization
			 - Palantir is organized into two core organizations: Product Development that writes software and Business development that helps customers make the best possible use of the Palantir platform and their data
				 - Palantir's business model is to develop software and ensure it is valuable to their customers

				 - **PD** itself is organized in three main groups: one for [Gotham](https://www.palantir.com/palantir-gotham/), one for [Foundry](https://www.palantir.com/palantir-foundry/), and one for our deployment infrastructure. Each of these platforms comprise a large number of micro-service-shaped components developed by distinct teams. Teams typically have five-ish members filling a variety of roles: developer, designer, product manager. There is no 1–1 correspondence between roles and humans (i.e., some folks may cover multiple roles) and one of the members is the designated team lead. The development teams are spread out across our main offices in Palo Alto, New York, Washington D.C., Seattle, and London.

				 - **BD** is organized in two groups by customer segment (private sector and government). Each customer is supported by a Palantir implementation team that deploys our software and helps the customer scope use cases, implement workflows, train users and developers, and implement bespoke functionality. Implementation teams are based at offices around the world and spend much of their time on site at customers’ corporate offices, production facilities, research labs, etc. Depending on the depth and breadth of the customer engagement, headcount of an implementation team can range from one to dozens of Palantirians.

			 - **Trust, autonomy, ownership, and motivation**
				 - Palantir invests in hiring excellent people and places trust in those who joined. __With trust comes autonomy.__
					 - New team members are quickly given complex problems to solve. this model may at times be locally inefficient (for instance when people spend 1–2 extra cycles solving a problem that someone else has already tackled), but the upside is that even the most junior Palantirians feel empowered to think outside the box, to fix things that appear broken, and ultimately to induce non-linear change in software or commercial trajectory.
						 - Trust and autonomy imply ownership, and ownership is one of the main sources of our employees’ motivation and productivity. Or, to quote the Agile manifesto, we should “__Build projects around motivated individuals. Give them the environment and support they need, and trust them to get the job done.__“

			 - [[feedback loops]]
				 - The Business Development team clearly provides the understanding and reasoning to the Product Development to what they're building. Even the most motivated Produce Developers are going to struggle if they don't understand why they're building something.
					 - The feedback loop between BD and PD has benefits on different time scales. Short term, implementation teams and customer users provide a day-by-day pulse on platform, UX, utility of new features, bugs, etc. In terms of the Agile manifesto, “__Business people and developers must work together daily throughout the project.”__

					 - Long-term, BD works with PD to synthesize their field experience into ideas and intuition for [entirely new product categories](https://hbr.org/2013/03/why-it-pays-to-be-a-category-creator).

			 - [[Experimentation]] #[[Q: How do we analyze our outcomes and performance to promote successful mistakes]] #[[Z: We miss learning opportunities in our failures when we don't take ownership of them]]
				 - Palantir makes sure that failure is a productive learning opportunity through experimentation. They make sure to cultivate a psychologically safe environment through seek innovation and establish a culture of encouraging and rewarding successful failure.

				 - Every major failure at Palantir undergoes a [[postmortem]] discussion to identify root causes and arrive at possible solutions. The discussion is structured similar to [[The Five Whys]], although fault-tree analysis (like) methodology is used to explore multiple paths. 
id:: 7a0d7086-d3d1-4fee-b88a-d2097742fb9d

				 - > Regardless of what we discover, we understand and truly believe that everyone did the best job they could, given what they knew at the time, their skills and abilities, the resources available, and the situation at hand.

			 - Open Communication
				 - Palantir disseminate both success and failures broadly and openly. 

			 - > To summarize, our cultural superpower is decentralized, autonomous decision-making (based on trust), and our product vision is informed foremost by our proximity to our customers’ problems — truths that align to key principles of Agile.

			 - [[Retrospective]]s
				 - Meta retrospectives discuss and reflect on how the team functioned, where individuals were blocked, by what or who we get motivated or demotivated, etc. These meta retrospectives are held once a week.

		 - [[agile]] project management
			 - Before adopting agile project management, the Palantir used tools like JIRA to count bugs for progress measurement. The idea was that when bugs were squashed the project was done, but not all bugs are created equal and often the most urgent problems didn't have corresponding tickets. #[[Q: Are we working on the right problems at work?]]
				 - Then Palantir started implementing Agile through two wee iterations, focusing on fewer things, but things that actually mattered. 

			 - I believe that the Agile practices described in [Henrik’s book](https://www.crisp.se/bocker-och-produkter/scrum-and-xp-from-the-trenches) worked well because:
				 - We had a strong product owner who was enthusiastic about the product and spent a lot of time thinking about and planning what to build next, and why. (Notably, the product owner did not prescribe how to build it.)

				 - In planning, the team took a small subset of this plan and focused narrowly on it. By having the entire team in the planning meeting, and the team committing to trying to finish something in an iteration, we felt real ownership.

				 - Inevitably, when you start talking about blockers and report what you are working on each day, many problems flowed to the surface. Instead of blaming Agile (“before we did Agile, we never had these problems!”), these issues were dealt with by a compassionate Scrum Master (Henrik in the beginning, but other people as they grew into the role).

				 - We had a few small teams that were all located in the same building, in a fairly small company. The teams also consisted (mostly) of skilled and motivated people.

				 - We focused on technical skills, such as learning about test-driven development (and testing in general). Reading Working Effectively with Legacy Code was life changing for me in this period.

				 - By having daily stand-ups, we went from not really knowing what the person next to you was working on, to pairing with that person. By having boards on the wall, not only the team, but other members of the entire company could see what was going on.

			 - **A struggling team might struggle even more with Agile.**
				 - On the flip side, for a team that is not high functioning and not motivated, no Agile practices in the world will help, especially not if forced upon them.
					 - __Sprint planning, stand-ups, and retrospectives only work for a team that’s engaged.__ When the team is just going through the motions — they’re not listening to one another, they’re not bringing ideas for improvement, there are a lot of blank stares in the room, etc. — meetings are a further waste of their time.

					 - __If there’s no clear backlog or strong product owner with a relentless focus on what to build next, the backlog will just be a mishmash of random things that might need to get done.__ This essentially degrades back to “fix all bugs” scenario mentioned above and team members will often find themselves demotivated as a result.

				 - My recommendation here depends on the situation:
					 - If the team has already started doing Agile, but it was somehow forced upon them, or they don’t seem receptive, it might be necessary to do a complete reset on the process. The first and most important step is to __listen__ to the team, find out what motivates them and what doesn’t. If it seems like team members aren’t willing to share this information, it’s possible that there are underlying issues with [psychological safety](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Psychological_safety) within the organization, which have to be addressed first.

					 - If the team is yet to embark on its Agile journey, don’t assume that introducing Agile is automatically going to make the team more motivated. Again, the first step is to listen to the team and make sure that you have buy-in from the team before you introduce the changes.

				 - In both of these two scenarios, finding a coach or mentor (from within or outside of the organization) is likely to be helpful for improving motivation and injecting new energy; it certainly was a key factor in the success story I mentioned above.

		 - Palantir Agile
			 - Methodology
				 - Teams discuss priorities and deliverables on weekly or fortnightly schedules. We often start a week with a 1h planning meeting, and end a week with a retrospective and demos of what we have achieved.

				 - We track tasks and progress using tools like JIRA or Asana.

				 - We test our progress with our users, minimally week-over-week, but ideally every day.

				 - Teams self-organize around customer requirements and don’t follow top-down mandates or implementation plans.

				 - Our people are our most precious resource. In contrast to Scrum, we adopt hybrid roles. For example, during the pilot, one of our [Deployment Strategists](https://www.palantir.com/careers/teams/deployment-strategists) was both developing the software and acting as a joint product owner with their business partner in the customer team.

				 - We strive to co-locate at customer locations in order to get more direct feedback from our users. When teams are geographically dispersed we use asynchronous communication tools like Slack and Quip and hold our daily stand-ups virtually.


			 - Reflecting on the status quo, we identified a number of problems:
				 - Our internal product backlog was not granular enough and was not shared with customer teams, limiting the customer developers’ understanding of feature work progress, upcoming changes, etc.

				 - The Program Team did not have good oversight on the progress and blockers relating to specific features and products as these issues were typically addressed in meetings held directly with the relevant business stakeholders.

				 - The delivery cycle was not uniform across the different use cases, features, and data products that our team was working on, meaning that our implementation partners did not have predictable timelines for our work outputs.

				 - Notably, we decided to stick with hybrid roles rather than establishing textbook Scrum roles. Even though this model makes individual responsibilities harder to define and understand, we generally have positive experiences with hybrid roles and value the resourcing flexibility that they enable. For the customer, this approach means that they don’t have to hire and staff large numbers of bespoke Scrum personnel for their various teams.

			 - Conclusion
				 - Formulaic interpretations of Scrum or other versions of Agile can be a drag on resources because they require specific roles and define strict formats for how various events and artifacts are implemented. In many ways these can be contradictory to the core principles of Agile that champion adaptability in response to evolving constraints. When resources are limited, this is not practical, and so I believe it is best to adapt your methodology to respect the __intentions__ of Agile rather than a formulaic implementation detail.

				 - At Palantir, we do not evaluate the success of our implementation teams by their “Agile-ness”, but rather by their business impact and output, so any additional process overhead should enable these goals. We were able to achieve this by partnering closely with our customer team to find a collaboration model that worked for us all in the reality of our working context.

			 - Responding to change over following a plan
				 - Agile is simply a philosophy, intended to empower teams to figure out how to work well together. This means, once you realize something’s not working, change it.

			 - Reflection at regular intervals
				 - Like with any skill you want to improve, for a team to work better together they need to take stock of their current working style to figure out what’s going well and where they’re falling short. Sounds easy enough, but honest self-reflection is not so simple. Agile teams need to be democratic with all team members feeling psychologically safe to speak their mind, otherwise you risk getting biased feedback from only certain individuals or personality types, and you likely miss out on the best ideas! (This is obviously not news to anyone familiar with the research of [Amy Edmondson](https://www.amazon.com/Teaming-Organizations-Innovate-Compete-Knowledge/dp/078797093X), [Google](https://hunterwalk.com/2016/09/03/google-finds-that-successful-teams-are-about-norms-not-just-smarts/), or [Edgar Schein](https://www.amazon.com/Organizational-Culture-Leadership-Edgar-Schein/dp/0470190604).)

				 - Two easy and powerful ways to get regular feedback from the full team are, in my experience:
					 - Create open/safe feedback channels. If you have a few dominating personalities, try using non-verbal feedback systems (e.g. write comments on post-its) and strongly encourage feedback from everyone, for instance by allocating speaking time slots.

					 - Get an outsider’s perspective on how the team interacts. We occasionally invite Agile coaches to join our demos or retros and then get their feedback on the spot at the end of the meeting. They have pointed out things like, __“your retro elicits honest feedback, but what are your one to two tangible action items for your team to improve?”__

				 - With reflection, our team realized that some team members lacked context of their teammates’ work, and if they didn’t feel comfortable asking questions, the knowledge gap continued to expand even further. We stopped dividing into smaller groups during quarterly planning so team members acquired a baseline understanding of all user stories. And, given we are a large team with broad scope, we focused on sharing the business context and value during demos.

				 - On a macro level, we also have quarterly workshops with key players from all teams — Palantir, product owners, business owners, and developers. These sessions always start with a retrospective to uncover friction, discuss how we’ve progressed since the last meeting, and articulate what is working well and what is not. This sets a workshop tone of openness and transparency, and in part helps us refine the workshop’s agenda. #[[Lessons Learned]]

- #[[Lessons Learned]]
	 - Think about the world, learning, and your work in playful ways. Once your mind frame works away from curiosity and play, it becomes unenjoyable work.
		 - Ask yourself are you having fun, are you enjoying this moment? Though keep in mind that true learning can be challenging, but it doesn't have to be challenging and unfun.

	 - [[q: How to build a good working group]]
		 - In meetings set aside a block of time for each team that is designated to them. 

- [[Meetings]]
	 - [[Orange Book Project]] + [[Capability Team]]
		 - Parsing special characters fix tentative date 4/30/2021 with plans for testing with Orange Book team. This affect Pharm Tox group as well.
