- [[December 8th, 2021]]
	- [[Meetings]]
		- [[Orange Book Project]] [[Sri]]
			- Slide 1 - Good Morning everyone, thank you for the opportunity to present and showcase the Orange Book Project in Nexus. In the next few slides we'll cover what the Orange Book is and what information it contains.
			- Slide 2 - The Orange Book is an actual Orange Book that publishes approved drug products approved by the FDA along with key information--patents, drug therapeutic equivalencies, exclusivities.
				- It came about from the Hatch-Waxman Amendments to establishing two new drug approval pathways, 505b2 to allow one company to reference an already submitted drug study and the 505j generics approval pathways.
				- In turn, with the generics approval pathway there was a requirement for the FDA to publicly make available a list of approved drug products on a monthly basis.
				- Some Example Uses cases for the  Orange Book is highlighted
			- Slide 3 - This slide shows an example of  the content and format of information in the Orange Book. On the left is an example page of the printed Orange Book.
				- It contains Generic Name and formulation
				- Company name
				- Strenght
				- Therapeutic equivalency code
				- On the right orange book website that shows the same information
				- Therapeutic evaluation to serve as public information and advice to state health agencies, prescribers, and pharmacists to promote public education in the area of drug product selection and to foster containment of health care costs.
					- **Use Case: **__Health Insurers creating their drug formulary.__
			- Slide 4 - This slide is highlights another use case of the Orange Book information. This section of the website displays patent information relevant to the drug and corresponding NDA application.
				- Having a patent listed in the Orange Book provides significant market protection to the
				  NDA holder from competing generic drugs entering the market.
				- Use Case: A company can claim Paragraph IV certification to challenge a patent. This filing will trigger litigation between the patent holder and the company disputing the
				  validity of the patent.
					- A paragraph IV certification will trigger a notification to the patent holder company to respond to the certification in which they can litigate against the generic drug company.
					- So published information by the Orange Book is crucial to be exact and correct because litigation does occur in this space.
			- Slide 5 - This slide highlights the Orange Book Staff, who they are, they're impacts and significant roles and responsibilities and processes.
			- Slide 6 - For phase 1 we completed the new drug patent review processes and this slide highlights the context of that new patent workflow.
				- The patent review process resides with the New Drug Approval process conducted by the Office of New Drugs in DARRTS.
				- So for example, Gilead submitted remdesivir on August of 2020 for market approval. At time of submission Gilead can choose to submit patent information through 3542a form, but since it is not yet approved, the Orange Book won't take action at this time.
				- Only when Remdesivir was approved 2 months later on October is Gilead required to submit the patent information for review by the Orange Book.
				- The Orange Book will review the patent information contained in the 3542 form and publish the patents information 30 days after the approval date.
				- In this patent example, the patent covers the drug molecule itself. The Orange Book staff only reviews that all the needed information is submitted by the Applicant, they do not review the validity of the patent claims.
			- Slide 7 - This a process flow for the  Orange Book Nexus application. I will switch back and forth with thee preprod application and the high level process.
				- Show reports