- #[[Lessons Learned]]
	 - When making decisions keep in mind both the knowns and unknowns, as well as their respective effects and chance of effect
		 - Also keep in mind the level of variance of our known information and to only make decisions when we have a good understanding of the level of fluctuations 

	 - Increase [[accountability]] through clearly communicating our expectations on others

- Daily Journal
	 - [[Morning Prayer]]

	 - [[Request]]


	 - [[Grateful]]

	 - [[Highlight-Day]]

	 - [[Evening Prayer]]

	 - [[Daily Review]]
		 - Ask someone else’s opinion before offering my own.

		 - Conduct an “energy, focus, openness” check just prior to every meeting I attend  **OR**  Conduct an “energy, focus, openness” check 3-4 set times each day to increase my self awareness.
			 - 1x

		 - Reflect on how my emotions impacted my work (attitude, interactions with others, communication) at the end of the day.

- [[April 1st, 2021]]
	 - [[Meetings]]
		 - [[SMT]] [[Orange Book Project]]
			 - Intro
				 - Good Morning everyone, the Orange Book Project is On track and currently in Sprint 17. 

				 - We are tying up loose ends with feedback from our UAT and E2E tests. 

				 - We are looking forward to our deployment weekend of April 16 through 18. With a formal launch that Monday April 19th.

				 - We released our prerelease communications Monday this week and are planning to hold pre-release training two weeks before go live on April 5 (next week). 

				 - Hypercare will be as needed basis after launching, though I plan to reach out to Tim to see if he wants to open up a communication channel for ongoing feedback.

			 - On the top left side of the slide are our key capability meetings: We've been using those meetings to complete last minute integration testing and collaborating on runbook activities.

			 - Our  key meetings with users are used to discuss feedback from their UATs that happened throughout March.

			 - Upcoming planned activities not already mentioned is the Operational Readiness Review with the PMO. Additionally there is another demo request for the iWFM team Thursday (April 8th) and another demo to the OGD Informatics Board still to be planned.
