- [[Richard Feynman]] talks about computers
	 - article link: https://fs-lc.s3.amazonaws.com/Updated+Knowledge+Library/Richard+Feynman+Explains+How+Computers+Work+-+A+Lecture.pdf

	 - Richard Feynman describes computers as filing system. 

- #Article Learning as a Leader  [[Suzan Bond]]
	 - Article link: https://observationsandannotations.substack.com/p/learning-as-a-leader

	 - [[feedback]] is essential for growth.  The [[feedback loop]] allows us to form neural pathways that guide and inform our actions. 

	 - Learning in the corporate landscape is challenging.
		 - We have to deal with many more variables, tempting us to consider ignoring feedback loops or not seek them out at all.

		 - We also have to consider the intrapersonal and interpersonal blindspots.

		 - We need to lean into seeking uncomfortable feedback outside our friend groups. Find people who we work with who we normally don't ask feedback from. 
			 - We need to be comfortable with being wrong, embarrassed or feeling dumb—in public.

		 - Organizational decisions with incomplete feedback loops or worse, no feedback loops, can lead to organizational distress. 
			 - Carefully consider feedback. Hard to hear feedback may can be pivotal so squash down the feeling to explain it away. 

- #Article Self-Control and Grit: Related but Separable Determinants of Success 
	 - link: [Fermat's Library | Self-Control and Grit: Related but Separable Determinants of Success annotated/explained version. (instapaper.com)](https://www.instapaper.com/read/1409412525)

	 - [[Grit]], self-denial, or self-control are postulated to be determinants of success along with skill, talent, and luck. 
		 - High achievers also exhibit zeal and the capacity for had labor. 

		 - Grit is described as a passion for and perseverance toward especially long term goals. It is the tenacious pursuit of our goals despite setbacks.
			 - Grit entails having and working assiduously toward a single challenging superordinate goal through thick and thin, on a timescale of years or even decades.

		 - Self-control is the capacity to regulate attention, emotion, and behavior in the presence of temptation.
			 - Self-control entails aligning actions with any valued goal despite momentarily more alluring alternatives

			 - Self-control is required when we are choosing and conflicted between two possible action tendencies (i.e, impulses). One corresponds to the momentarily alluring goal and the other to a more valued goal whose benefits are deferred in time, more abstract, or otherwise psychologically distant.  

		 - Self-control and grit work on different time scales.
