- [[December 10th, 2021]]
	 - Product Owner Slides
		 - Good Morning Everyone, for the next few minutes we would like to share an incoming initiative to explore the product owner role within the Agile Scrum development framework. A few of OBI PMs had the opportunity to attend product owner training and we would like to share the resources and knowledge we received with our OBI colleagues.

		 - What is this imitative about?
			 - This initiative isn't here  to explore where the PO role should come from from  but rather try to gain a fuller understanding of the PO role activities and responsibilities.

			 - Through the exploration of these questions we would like to realize some benefits for OBI.

		 - Types of Owner
			 - Within the context of the development world there are different types of ownership.
				 - Feature

				 - Component

				 - Product

			 - As you can see the Product Owner role has an expansive role of ownership encompassing both features and components. Are  we supporting the Product Owner role to be successfully in understanding their responsibilities in this broader scope including features and components?

		 - With this broad scope in mind, we can categorize the product owner role activities and responsibilities into strategic or tactical activities.
			 - Strategy is overarching plan or set of goals. 

			 - Tactics are the **specific actions or steps you undertake to accomplish your strategy**.

			 - So both are intertwined, the strategy informs the tactical activities.

			 - So the strategic activities of product strategy, product roadmap and stakeholder management is going to ensure that we conduct the tactical activities correctly. 

			 - So this means if we're missing components from the strategic activities then we are going to have worse outcomes when conducting the tactical activities.

		 - On the next slide Lovi will present the how the strategic and tactical activities can help us categorize two different types of Product Owners.
