- [[Meetings]]
	- [[Daily Call]] with [[Orange Book Project]]
		- TODO Tim brought up mistaken 3542a but really 3542 form. How to deal with that
		- Mistaken 3542a
		- If tests are already ran, then no justification to request again. If not then we can run the test.
	- [[Meeting]] with [[Orange Book Project]]
		- RS and RLD data only attached to approved NDAs, no access to pre-approved NDAs
	- [[Meeting]] with [[Sri]]
		- Orange Book Notes
			- The Orange Book Patent Review Process and it's transformation is a multi-year, multiphase initiative. This project represents the first solution offered to the Orange Book Team under the office of Generic Drugs.
				- The team is about 11-15 people. Admittedly a relatively small team but the Orange Book patent information which they review is viewed and used by Industry to inform drug companies on their generic drug development dependent on patents and exclusivities protections.
					- Healthcare companies also use it to contain drug healthcare costs through therapeutic substitution between drugs also listed on the Orange Book website.
			- We are in Phase 1 (new NDA patent review) and looking to move into Phase 2 (update existing patent information) for FY21.
			- The benefits of the Orange Book Project is automating data entry through automatics parsing of 3542 forms which contain the patent information
				- And creating robust workflow for patent reviews in Nexus which is still a manual process
				- Currently they are working with a non-OBI managed system, the Orange Book Modernization System OBMOD for short for their data entry and records system
			- The biggest challenge for this project is collaborating with the OBMOD team and the OBMOD system to ensure a seamless integration between Nexus, Integrity and OBMOD.
			- **What are the main uses of Orange Book**
				- To retrieve information such as drug application date, approval date and list of related patents to find out whether the patents claims drug substance (DS) such as active pharmaceutical ingredient or polymorph and drug product (DP) such as method of treating, dosage, composition, and formulations, and also to find out the expiry dates of the corresponding patents.
				- To search for the Innovators drug and approved corresponding generic drug information.
				- It helps in taking important decisions/strategies for pharmaceutical companies whether to go into the market for sale or any modifications can be done to the existing drug and protects it by filing a patent.
				- To identify patent exclusivity period and respective deadlines for any approved drugs (example: Orphan Drug Exclusivity-ODE – 7 years, New Chemical Entity Exclusivity (NCE) – 5 years, Generating Antibiotic Incentives -5 years, New Clinical Investigation Exclusivity- 3 years, Paediatric Exclusivity (PED) – 6 months, Patent Challenge (PC) – 180 days).
				- To identify the polymorphs of innovators patented drug and challenge the innovator’s patented drug in order to get the benefit of 180 days market rights in the US by filing ANDA (PIV).
- [[Books]]
	- [[Books: Mastermind: How to think like Sherlock Holmes]]
	- [[Books: Upstream]]