- [[Meetings]]
	 - [[Daily Call]] + [[Orange Book Implementation]]
		 - We have the ability to archive tasks (pending sponsor response)

	 - [[Orange Book Implementation]] + ORR Preparation
		 - TODO  Get clarification on 356H form functionality

	 - [[iWFM]] + [[Orange Book Project]]
		 - Quick highlight for ORR CCB

		 - End to end functionality for PMO Thursday

- Daily Journal
	 - [[Morning Prayer]]
		 - Lord thank you for this day and the opportunity to hear kind words from [[Tessa Brown]] regarding the SLRP. Thank you for this job that I enjoy.

	 - [[Request]]
		 - Lord I pray that you make me humble, generous, and kind. Help me not to judge, but give me a helping heart. I pray for your guidance and blessing for wisdom to carry me through the day. Amen.

	 - [[Grateful]]

	 - [[Highlight-Day]]

	 - [[Evening Prayer]]

- #[[Lessons Learned]]
	 - [[success]] means facing uncomfortable truths. "Often times what that means is saying the uncomfortable thing but it's the thing that needs to be said @chamath 
		 - Success means living the life you want to. "I think a lot people have to do things that are motivated by other people's perception of them, and also motivated by the pressure that's exerted by the people that are very close around you.

		 - success can be prioritizing happiness over wealth or money

	 - When presenting make sure you walkthrough with the audience on how to approach the thinking about your information. Make your thought processes as visible as possible so the audience can reach the same conclusions and make the same connections as you do. 
