- [[Daily Call]] with [[Orange Book Project]]
	 - Request for pre-prod DARRTS to allow for search of example patent submissions by end of day

- [[Meeting]] for [[OM Brands]]
	 - Funding deficiency and capacity deficiency. We have to limit projects.

- [[Meeting]] for [[Orange Book Project]] with [[Capability Team]]
	 - Status of OBI components and if we can support OBMOD UAT for January 29

	 - OBMOD requests greater participation for end-to-end testing for February (script writing and other testing activities)

	 - New Integration meetings for next weeks

	 - E-mail use case services

	 - 356h date - later at the end of the month 

	 - TODO  EDR file path - on Shanthi's plate - working with Tessa

- [[The Knowledge Project]] with [[Julia Galef]]
	 - Types of [[rationality]]
		 - [[epistemic rationality]] - is using processes for reasoning or processing information that systematically gets you closer to  an accurate model of how the world works

		 - [[instrumental rationality]]- making the best choices given the best information available that are likely to achieve your goals. 

	 - Changing your own mind. 
		 - Believe that it's in your best interest to do so. Explore the things you're wrong about so it'll make us better decision-makers for ourselves and other people. Be willing to explore new evidence and open to change your mind when they are persuasive. 

		 - We're motivated to try to acquire or very influenced by the culture we live in. 

		 - High stakes goals that require us to rid our biases and blind spots in order to achieve them. 

		 - Create triggers for [[open-mindedness]] in everyday behavior to promote [[automatic behaviors]]. 
			 - [[q: Create automatic behaviors to promote rational consumption of behavior]]. 

	 - Our [[emotion]]s are often in the background and influencing our thinking. Our emotions can get in the way of rationality processing someone's argument or reasoning. We can combat our emotions through self-awareness of our emotional reactions. 

	 - We shouldn't expect people to change their minds based on facts and evidence, because people are not rational, instead, we are emotional based thinkers

- 
