- [[Daily Review]]
	 - Ask someone else’s opinion before offering my own.

	 - [[Deliberate Practice]]
		 - Seek perfection and high standards. No task is beneath me.

		 - Improve my writing

		 - Improve my thinking

	 - Reflect on how my emotions impacted my work (attitude, interactions with others,
  communication) at the end of the day.

- [[Meetings]] + [[Orange Book Project]] + OBMOD CCB
	 - SOP is to go through Help Desk  

	 - Confirmed that the OBSupport@fda.hhs.gov is in Service Now

	 - Confirm if integrations are connecting after April 9th.

	 - OBMOD fail/successful emails will only go through PM and user who completed them
		 - One time consolidated email for these notices?

	 - Tim and Truong will 

- [[April 9th, 2021]]
	 - [[Meetings]]
		 - [[Capability Team]] + [[Orange Book Project]]
			 - Separate SOPS derived from the Inter-Office Guidance

- #[[Lessons Learned]]
	 - Build feedback loops for others in their processes. Challenge their processes if they don't exist. Speak out and be heard. 

	 - If you have an idea, try writing a narrative to flesh it out clearly.

	 - For customer focused design, work backwards.

	 - To solve a problem that is new and you don't have a model yet, try working backwards. For example working on a helpdesk SOP, what would be helpful and useful for the customers.

	 - Have a clear audience and perspective for your solutions. Who is this solution serving and working for?

	 - For problem-solving we should engage in intense debates and ask hard questions.
