- [[Daily Review]]
	- TODO Pray
	- TODO Deliberate Practice (awareness and mindfulness of activities, rather than going through the motions)
	- [[Deliberate Practice]] on activities that aligns with my goals and missions
		- Act like a leader even when it's uncomfortable
		- Seek perfection and high standards. No task is beneath me.
		- Improve my writing
		- Improve my thinking
	- TODO  Conduct an “energy, focus, openness” check just prior to every meeting I attend  **OR** 
	  Conduct an “energy, focus, openness” check 3-4 set times each day to increase my self awareness.
- [[Lessons Learned]]
	- #[[Project Management]]
		- If you are having trouble getting a clear education on a solution from other teams ask questions to get to the clearest picture you  can.
			- What can go wrong? What can break the solution? What is the critical logic/component?
		- Uncover the assumptions that the other teams or your own assumptions.
			- Challenge and question the status quo.
- [[Meetings]]
	- Structured Review with GDIT contract with OGD
	- Cloud  collaboration -
- [[How to Win Friends and Influence People]]
	- tags: #books #Influence #relationships
	- takeaway notes:
		- The original audience of this book was for salespersons.
	- Literature Notes:
		- **Techniques on Handling People**
			- **Don't criticize, condemn or complain**
			- **Give honest and sincere appreciation**
			- Arouse in the other person an eager want
		- **Six Ways to Make People Like You**
			- Become genuinely interested in other people
			- Smile
			- Remember that a person's name is to that person the sweetest and most important sound in any language
			- Be a good listener. Encourage others to talk about themselves
			- Talk in terms of other person's interests
			- Make the other person feel important—and do it sincerely
		- **Win People to Your Way of Thinking**
			- The only way to get the best of an argument is to avoid it.
			- Show respect for the other person's opinions. Never say, "You're wrong."
			- If you are wrong, admit it quickly and empathically
			- Begin in a friendly way
			- Let the other person do a great deal of the talking
			- Let the other person feel that the idea is his or hers
			- Try honestly to see things from the other person's point of view
			- Be sympathetic with the other person's ideas and desires
			- Appeal to the nobler motives
			- Dramatize your ideas
			- Throw down a challenge
		- **Be a leader: How too Change People Without Giving Offense or Arousing Resentment**
			- Begin with praise and honest appreciation
			- Call attention to people's mistakes indirectly
			- Talk about your own mistakes before criticizing the other person
			- Ask questions instead of giving direct orders
			- Let the other person save face
			- Praise the slightest improvement and praise every improvement.
			- Give the other person a fine reputation to live up to.
			- Use encouragement. Make the fault seem easy to correct.
			- Make the other person happy about doing the thing you suggest.
		- **Criticism**
			- Criticism is futile because it puts a person on the defensive and usually makes him strive to justify himself.
				- Criticism is dangerous, because it wounds a person's precious pride, hurts their sense of importance, and arouses resentment. Anyone can criticize and condemn, but it takes character and self-control to be understanding and forgiving.
		- **People are emotional**
			- When dealing with people, let us remember we are not dealing with creatures of logic. We are dealing with creatures of emotion, creatures bristling with prejudices and motivated by pride and vanity.
		- **The Key to Influencing Others**
			- The only way to influence other people is to talk about what they want and show them how to get it.
		- **The Secret to success**
			- The secret to success lies in the ability to get the other person's point of view and see things from that person's angle as well from your own.
- [[Butterfly effect]]
	- The phenomenon where a small change in starting conditions can lead to vastly different outcomes.
	- The butterfly effect cannot be used as leverage because reality is that small things in a complex system may have no effect or a massive one, and it is virtually impossible to know which will turn out to be the case.
	- [[Edward Lorenz]] was a meteorologist and mathematician who combined the two disciplines in an attempt to predict and forecast future weather phenomena.
	- He theorized weather prediction models are inaccurate because knowledge of the precise starting conditions is impossible and a tiny change can throw off the results.