- [[September 16th, 2021]]
	 - [[Meetings]]
		 - [[Orange Book Project]] [[ORR]]
			 - Good Morning Everyone, Thank you for your time and attention today for the Orange Book Nexus solution Operation Readiness Review meeting.

			 - The Agenda is as follows: For today we are concerned with the 3542 enhancements and the processes that supports its implementation from mitigation strategies to Training.
				 - We'll also address risks and future/upcoming issues and challenges the Orange Book Solution that we are seeking feedback and guidance on

			 - Then end with next steps and future timeline

			 - As an overview for this meeting, we are targeting the project creation of the Orange Book Nexus Solution with improvements  to the parsers specifically. 
				 - Previously the initial parser that supported project creation employed strict logic and therefore missed creating patent projects in Nexus. The main causes were scanned forms and file titling conventions used by the Applicants. Scanned forms were not readable and combined with the missing 3542 title, these files were ignored. We didn't create projects for it.

				 - The proposed solution is to enhance the existing 3542 parser with a new 3542a parser to differentiate between the 3542 and 3542a forms. The patent review process is only for 3542 forms and not 3542a forms. This would allow us to remove the previous existing strict logic of file naming requirements.

				 - To accommodate for the scanned forms we implemented additional 5 step logic to gain a level confidence whether to create a project or not. We'll discuss that flow in the next slides.

				 - To the right, I'd like to highlight the relevant regulations, specifically that the NDA holders must submit a patent information within 30 days following an NDA original or supplemental approval for publication to the Orange Book. 
					 - Missing publication of patents or publishing inaccurate patent information can result in litigation between Applicants So credibility and a trustworthy project creation functionality is key to our product owners.

				 - Architecture design updates therefore are the 3542a parser and the addition of the 5-step logic to account for scanned forms. And removal of the strict logic that existed before.

			 - The architecture/data flow slide highlights where the 3542 enhancements resides within the overall process. As you can see, the Integrity parser is upstream and a critical component for the downstream Nexus workflow to proceed correctly. 
				 - The project creation in Nexus relies on the resulting messages from the parser via PIES.

				 - Before moving forward are the any questions?

			 - The enhanced parser has two paths: one for successful parsing to be  and another path for failed parsing or scanned forms. The parser will attempt to parse any pdf files in the m1 folder. Files that are readable we are confident in creating the project, but for both scanned pdf files and pdf files that are electronic but fails parsing we can leverage the Apache Tika library to try to get some confidence in project creation through extractable text from the files. 
				 - For example if we can extract section 4.2b unique to 3542 forms, we can have confidence in creating a patent project, if that's not available we can look at the file headers and meta data for help, if lastly that's not available we can rely on the file titling as a guide to create a project or not.

				 - This enhancement does not guarantee 100% project creation. There will always be exception cases. We are monitoring the outcomes and results and will share that in the upcoming slides.

			 - To address the exception cases and to help prevent missing project. There is a daily manual review of projects created between DARRTS and Nexus. This mitigation strategy will be in place until we a have more robust solution.
				 - Ideally we would like to marry the manual review of the DARRTS system with the automated parsing of the Orange Book Nexus. With the combination of each system they can double check each other's project creation results.

			 - Regarding Integrations summary only the inbound processing, specifically the automated parsing 3542 is affected. Other Integrations are not affected.

			 - Similarly the 3542 parser enhancements does not affect the commonn services.

			 - We conducted UAT to support the continued improvements of the project creation of the Orange Book Nexus solution. We provided 26 patents a cross 18 NDA submissions in the preprod environment to simulate key identified scenarios such scanned files, file names without 3542 and mislabeling the files as 3542a even though they are actually 3542.
				 - The overall goal of the testing was to validate that the expected behavior occurred for project/record creation in Nexus via the parser.
					 - Confirming that records were or were not created per parsing logic​

					 - Confirming that records that were created in Nexus appeared in the correct work queue​

					 - Confirming that data on records that were created in Nexus were or were not fully parsed per parsing logic

			 - The enhancements to the project creation was the response to the risk listed here as "The parsing logic is not broad enough to address all incoming forms, and consequently all workflows." —meaning patent projects were not being created.
				 - In addition to the 3542 enhancement we also have the manual data daily review between Nexus and DARRTS projects to help mitigate missed project creation.

				 - We will continue to monitor the parsing outcomes and identify trends as we explore options to reduce this risk even further.

			 - One of the ideas to support a more robust project creation  was to integrate DARRTS information into Nexus to leverage the human/manual reviews by the Document Room Staff during categorization and subcategorization along with the automated parsing solution in Nexus (basically automating the manual review).
				 - We would hope to leverage this solution as it will also address a source of future and current challenges we are facing. The current challenge is that the Orange Book workflow is inherently tied to the NDA workflows in DARRTS and we don't have a direct connection to the DARRTS information 

				 - We encountered requirements that are dependent on DARRTS information we can't effectively provide options with the current design of the Orange Book Nexus Solution.
					 - One was the request to automatically populate the supplement number field when sending a deficiency letter to DARRTS. Without DARRTS information this requires the reviewer to go into the DARRTS system and search for the supplement number

					 - The second related request dependent on DARRTS was that for a deficiency letter to be recorded in DARRTS lifecycle, the submission has to first be coded by the Document Room Staff.
						 - Because the project  creation in Nexus doesn't rely on DARRTS cat/subcat, and instead is fully automated with the Integrity parser there, the Orange Book Nexus Solution will create a project for review hours or up to a day in advance than the manual process in DARRTS.

					 - We wanted to bring this up so we get the proper amount of attention and to start conversations on our options to mitigate if we uncover more similar requirements and they could be more impactful to user experience and adoption.

			 - Tim has kindly volunteered to provide training to the rest of the Orange Book staff on the 3542 enhancements and the additional functionality developed after the April 16 Go live

			 - No change in level of support needed from the Help Desk

			 - Hypercare will be provided for all rotating Orange Book Pharmacists. The patent review process has one pharmacists rotating in a 2 week period.
