- [[Meetings]]
	 - [[Project Advisory Group]] + [[Regulatory Structured Review Development]]
		 - Questions: 
			 - What are the evaluation criteria?

			 - Goal for those questions: 
				 - 7-9 consistent questions for all vendors that elicit what isn't written in their writing or in presentation

				 - Not all technical questions, 

	 - [[SMT]]
		 - On the top left, key meetings with Capability Teams, The Orange Book Project is working with Integrity on the enhancement request to parse mistitled 3542 forms. 
			 - The latest estimated date on this is August 20th.

			 - We hope to get a timeline for when testing occurs as our Product Owner is interested offering different testing scenarios when testing does occur.

		 - We are also working with Integrity on the solution to address the newly updated 3542 forms. The solution should go up tonight.
			 - Kristi and Neil can we validate on our end that this went through successfully?

			 - I am working with the CDER Forms group and the PMO on prevention processes to help future implementations with critical integrations related to forms.

		 - We ended our key meetings with end users with hypercare and will resume when the Orange Book Staff returns to Nexus.

		 - We have a meeting scheduled with Tim today to discuss the OB enhancement requests and the May O&M items, walkthrough of the 3542 solution from Integrity, and field any questions and concerns

	 - [[Orange Book Implementation]]
		 - Reject back to manual entry to allow for comment for double check.

		 - Different search field for MOU and definition

	 - [[Orange Book Project]] + [[Timothy Kim]]
		 - TODO Validation on the updated 3542 parsing

		 - TODO Check on the addition of letter

		 - TODO Request collaboration on timeline and testing opportunities with Integrity

		 - Hi Tim, First of thank you for your patience with the May 21 deployment. After talking internally to discuss the OrangeBook email and recipient addresses that didn't go through production this month. We should have communicated more clearly that this this ticket wasn't testable in PreProd and something we would follow up on in production and update you as soon as possible to validate. I think the main concerns were sending out live emails to Sponsors, which did happened in the  past. Those concerns didn't go through clearly from our side and we didn't update on quickly post production. Moving forward we'll be explicit in our communications to highlight events like these and work to validate and update you earlier on the outcomes.  We'll also work with you on testing scenarios
