- [[Daily Review]]
	- TODO Pray - Invite God to your thoughts throughout the day
	- TODO Deliberate Practice (awareness and mindfulness of activities, rather than going through the motions)
	- [[Deliberate Practice]] on activities that aligns with my goals and missions
		- Act like a leader even when it's uncomfortable
		- Seek perfection and high standards. No task is beneath me.
		- Improve my writing
		- Improve my thinking
	- TODO  Conduct an “energy, focus, openness” check just prior to every meeting I attend  **OR** 
	  Conduct an “energy, focus, openness” check 3-4 set times each day to increase my self awareness.
- [[Meetings]]
	- [[COR]]
	- [[Orange Book Project]] + [[PMO]] + [[Shanthi]]
		- Apologize to Shanthi for not brining her in earlier.
		- Outcomes wanted: ^^plan to ask Orange Book to return to Nexus^^
			- Orange Book Concerns: How OBI can support the Orange Book Project with competing Offices and multiple implementations happening
				- Talks of lessening Integrity dependencies - came about from the level of effort required for a fix (3-4 month wait)
			- What we need: A long term plan (actionable) to address their concerns
				- Underlying problem is the mandate to not build integrations with Integrity is presenting challenges for us. It would be beneficial to strengthen our logic and solution with information from DARRTS
					- It seems this recommendation isn't being followed by other implementations and recent approaches have phased approaches.
					- It is challenging with the decision makers are not following their own recommendations
		- Things to keep in mind:
			- Quality of our responses
			- Do our responses satisfy their concerns.
				- We need an actionable plan not only statements or "education"
				- Can we plan with them?
- [[Strategies for Leading Through Uncertainty]]
	- tags: #article #[[Problem Solving]] #Leadership
	- #[[Literature Notes]]
		- To effectively lead in increasing complexity , leaders must first learn to lead themselves
		- 1. Embrace the discomfort of not knowing
			- Throughout our career we are conditioned to come up with the answer. As a single definitive correct answer.
			- Our brains are hardwired to see uncertainty as a risk or threat.
				- Although avoiding these feelings is natural, avoidance can cost us opportunity to learn, grow, and improve our performance.
			- Instead of avoiding these feelings of discomfort from uncertainty we can learn to embrace them as part of learning. We must shift from a mindset of "know-it-all" to "learn-it-all" #humble #[[Learning Culture]]
		- Distinguish between complicated and complex
			- Complicated is something like tax laws, but this can be be broken down into simpler parts that could be understood
			- Complexity on the other hand contains many interdependent elements some of which maybe  unknown and may change over time in unpredictable ways.
				- Action one component can result in disproportionate or unforeseen outcomes.
			- Solutions to complex challenges are often derived through trial and error and requires the willingness, humility, and ability to act, learn, and adapt.  #[[Critical Thinking]] #solutions #[[Problem Solving]]
		- Let go of perfectionism
			- In complex environments, the context is continually changing. Aiming for [[perfection]] is futile. Instead aim for progress, make and expect mistakes, recognize we have the ability to course correct.
				- We can strive for perfection but with mental flexibility to allow ourselves to make mistakes.
				- We need to release the negative that comes from our failure to achieve perfection, rather than stopping to pursue it at all.
		- Resist oversimplifications and quick conclusions
			- It is tempting to oversimply complex challenges so they seem less daunting
			- Carefully breaking down complex problems/questions as too narrow can negatively affect our views—obscuring critical interdependencies. This can lead to a false sense of security.
			- > Resist the action to seek a quick resolution, learn to balance the need for action with a disciplined approach to understanding both the core problems and their own biases
		- Don't go at it alone
			- Don't solve problems that are complex and solutions are unclear, reach out to your network and ask for different perspectives.
			- When we ask for help we can expand our knowledge where we can draw and gain possible insights from.
		- Zoom out
			- We can stuck with an issue/challenge because we are immersed in them. We can try to zoom out to get a broader perspective and systematic.