- #article How Apple Organizes itself and avoids failures
	 - Literature Notes
		 - There are no divisions in Apple—no iPhone, Mac or Airpod teams, instead Apple organizes the organization through functions
			 - When Apple develops a new product, the code is organized around projects. A project group is formed and draws resources from different functions such as software engineers, operations, hardware technologies or product design

			 - This allows Apple to focus on products and customers rather than getting 

	 - Takeaways:
		 - What would be the pitfalls of Apple or any high functioning organization?
			 - No matter the company, it can be susceptible to personal mediocrity. Insecure B-grade managers hiring C-grade players who won't challenge their authority or expertise and, as a result, products and solutions suffer as a consequence.
id:: 099a3456-b620-4886-aad8-39560496413e
				 - For an organization, the beginning of the end comes when the brains realize the upper layers are colonized by incompetents and get into "why bother mode" 

			 - We need to fight against mediocrity, authority and experience when they stifle good-decision and informed decision making.

- #article How to Implement a new behavior
	 - tags: #behavior #change

	 - Literature notes
		 - Watch others who have successfully demonstrated the skill or behavior you want to emulate and copy their processes. Most importantly, when applicable, also try to understand their thought processes.
			 - When we are unsure of ourselves we can look for similar situations where people have corrected and emulate their behaviors.

- #article Efficiency is the Enemy
	 - tags: #slack #efficiency 

	 - Literature notes
		 - [Slack]([[slack]]) is the excess time and capacity (when it seems like we are doing nothing) that allows for responsiveness and flexibility. Slack allows us to take care of shocks and surprises from work
			 - It is the degree of freedom required to effect change. Slack is the natural enemy of efficiency. Slack represents operational capacity sacrificed in the interests of the long-term health of the organization/team.

			 - Slack can also be defined as excess resources like time, money, people, or even expectations—welcoming mistakes for the sake of exploration and experimentation
				 - Slack allows us to experiment, think and re-think about problems and questions, change our minds and to do things that might not work.

				 - We achieve more when we have more slack. When we are not busy we can think about our processes and if we are doing the right things.

			 - **Slack is pivotal to allow companies and organizations to grow. Good organizations excel in the creative use of slack and bad companies are obsessed about removing it. **

		 - If we find ourselves burnt-out, depressed, and overwhelmed then we may need more slack in our lives. 
			 - Many high achievers and organizations fail to recognize the value of slack.

		 - [[efficiency]] vs [[effective]]
			 - We're efficient when we do something with minimum waste

			 - We're effective when we're doing something right

			 - [[Z: Total efficiency is a myth.]]
				 - tags: #efficiency

				 - Description:
					 - If we fill our work time so we are always working we will not have the flexibility to work and respond quickly to emergent and immediate problems and questions (work items)

			 - We view idle time negatively, equating it to laziness.

			 - Anytime we eliminate slack we created a build up of work

		 - [[scarcity]] is the opposite of slack. It weighs on our minds and is emotionally draining and uses up our energy that could have been used at doing our jobs better. Scarcity (lack of slack) amplifies failures and unintended consequences

	 - Fleeting notes
		 - I have a lot of slack at work and for the most autonomy. Is it worth to give this up over a pay raise? It is frustrating to be led by non-thinkers and those in leadership not open to being questioned about their authority. 
