- [[January 27th, 2022]]
	 - [[Meetings]] [[Knowledge Sharing Group]]
		 - Good Afternoon everyone, Thanks Lovi for those tips on presenting. I had the opportunity to present to Sri and he thought it was a good model for a Nexus presentation. So I thought it would be a good idea to share to others if you don't have a model or plan in mind when presenting to Sri. At that time I didn't really have any past experiences with presenting to Sri so I worked with Lovi on drafting the slide deck.

		 - Before drafting the slide deck I used Sri's email on what he's looking for after one of the Table Talks meetings. So a refresher that's on this slide.

		 - So a pretty good outline to follow the narrative of a Nexus presentation combined with the recommendations by Lovi

		 - Keep in my I had an hour to present a background for Orange Book to Sri, so if you have less time then you have be more careful in editing out only the necessary items to fit your time slot.

		 - For Orange Book I started with regulations the preceded Orange Book, description of Orange Book and a photo. Then a high level  examples of use cases

		 - I then proceeded to go into what data is contained and how the data is used. So an example use case is patents providing marketing protections to your data. Also highlighting that the Orange Book website has 40k daily visitors to highlight the quantitive impact to the public.

		 - I would ensure that you are familiar with any public facing extension of your application that Sri can get his hands on because he might bring up questions during your presentation.

		 - On the next slide I highlighted impacted Offices within FDA and Significant Roles and Responsibilities. I also broke down work processes and impacted Systems.
			 - If I had to redo this presentation...

- 
