- [[OBI Product Owner Training]]
	 - Roleplay risks and lack of transparencies
		 - Use OBI 

- [[Suitability Petitions]] | Demo OTT 
	 - Script:
		 - Good afternoon everyone. Thank you for your time today. For those who don't know me, I'm a project manager with OBI and I'm currently supporting OGD projects like the Orange Book Project with Tim Kim and Kendra Stewart. And now I'm also helping out with the Suitability Petitions Project. 

		 - In this meeting with we have representation from the PMO (Project Management Office, Lean Management Staff,  other OBI project managers and Nexus staff)

		 - The purpose of this meeting is to discover feedback from the Suitability Petitions users on how useable the Office tracking tool and other Nexus tools like SharePoint Online to help meet the Suitability Petitions workflow. Basically convey a possible design option.

		 - We'd like to do this through demos and discussions with everyone in this meeting.

		 - Does the proposed demo work with everyone or any modification you'd like to entertain on how we gather feedback in this meeting?
			 - Is there any specific portions of the OTT tool you'd like to concentrate on for those that watched the recorded demo?

			 - Is there an upfront question anyone would like to ask?

		 - Mahmoud or Michael did you have any opening remarks?

	 - Notes
		 - OGDP currently puts in the record

		 - How many levels of types and subtypes
			 - Record types 3 levels 

			 - Docket number and SP number

		 - Would we be able to add fields?
			 - Can't add specific docket and SP number fields.

			 - No integration with SharePoint

		 - Record title is searchable

		 - User Assignments is limited to users defined by the implementation team. 

		 - Can we leave a blank assigning teams 
			 - They have an existing Nexus account to triage

			 - Can a mailbox work as a user to triage incoming tasks.

	 - Talk with Mahmoud

	 - Can OTT work for Suitability Petitions

	 - Ask for a prototype w/ Mahmoud
		 - Trial period of sandboxed environment if yes or maybe 

- Patricia - better planning with OBI and OGD

- OGD - Communication issues
