- 16:02 [[Books - Succeeding as a Management Consultant: Learn the skills used by the leading management consulting firms, such as McKinsey, BCG, et al.]]
	- When presenting to your clients make sure you blend into the culture. Don't be overdressed if the culture isn't into fancy suits and ties. #[[q: how to present]]
	- [[Principle of followship]] is when we build and invests of our colleagues, these smart and capable people will support you, and you will progress rapidly and have a strong support base.
	- #[[q: How to be a leader without authority]] Not asking for help isn't a sign of strength but a sign of weakness.
		- Put yourself in position of [[stretch roles]] so you are forced to go outside your comfort zone by learning new skills, operating in a new environment, or doing work that you have never done before.
		- [[q: How to forge strong business relationships]]
			- Consistently understand the business, show you are organized, and meet deadlines.
				- Show only work that has been checked and is logical.
			- Build both professional and personal relationships.
	- #[[Problem Solving]] #[[customer engagement]]
		- First, confirm the problem that we are solving is the real problem we should be solving. It may turn out that we are fixing a symptom of the problem rather than the problem itself.
		- Second, diagnose the problem by identifying its case and develop options to remedy the problem.
		- Finally the options must be implemented.
		- We need to take full ownership of the solution and understanding of the problem for the engagement to succeed. We can do this by taking charge of the process and getting help as needed.
		- #Strategy is not a linear process where a few analyses provides a clear answer. A successful strategy is born from many iterations of the learning feedback loop and feedback—and feed backloops are messy.
			- (A successful strategist has accumulated many experiences that resulted in feedback loops—both successful and failures—to accumulate strategy)
			- A good strategy can be difficult to tell apart from good strategy and therefore failure and mistakes should not be seen as signs of weakness. The ability to remain flexible and adapt is what matters.
		- Understanding the client
			- Any excellent problem solver knows that it is impossible to properly give recommendations to a problem without understanding the environment, culture, history, and challenges where the location of the solution will be implemented.
				- Ensure that you take the time and investment to learn these aspects first before coming up with solutions and options as to not appear foolish and also improve relations with your customers.
			- Paraphrase the problem back to the client to ensure you fully understand their requests, need, or issue.
				- (We can do this through tools like spring backlog sign-offs, process models, and diagrams)
		- A good problem solver is one that can see a problem from many different view points.
		- Take time to reflect and take the time before immediately providing a response to a question. Any poorly constructed response can discredit your credibility in front of your clients.