- [[OM WER]] [[Capability Team]] Capability Meeting
	 - Integrity Look up for Portal
		 - Need to connect to Orange Book published data

	 - Migration Effort for legacy data

	 - Submission Rates
		 - 101 Pending in-flight

		 - Per month 25 submissions

	 - External users are within FDA - no Nexus accounts/SPO 
		 - Clarify this with users #task #complete
			 - CDER + CBER

		 - Nexus gives out permissions lists

	 - Portal 
		 - Public viewable data only #comment
			 - Nexus should have both public and unpublished

			 - About active 25 users

		 - Detailed requirements and wireframes for Portal 

	 - Questions:
		 - If a project is manual do we have the corresponding communication design #task

- [[OM WER]] | [[Integrity Data Analysis]]
	 - Concentration is unique to OM WER
		 - Integrity can store this in Integrity to link

	 - Employee table
		 - Not needed to be stored in Integrity

	 - DUNS associated to Billable not Applicant name?

	 - Applicant must have license number to their products.
		 - License numbers assigned from DARRTS

	 - STN - Submission Tracking Number
		 - For CBER products, similar to sequence number (similar to supplement number)

		 - Like ORIG-1, ORIG-2, SUPPL-1, SUPPL-2

	 - Specific names needed
		 - NAME-TEBG (biological identifier)

- [[Tessa Brown]] | [[postmortem]] | Planning for Lessons Learned | [[April 6th, 2022]]
	 - What are the goals we are trying to achieve?
		 - Can we restate this into a problem statement?

	 - How do we know this is a good idea?

	 - What are the inhibiting factors now that is preventing this from happening?
		 - Lack of safe space
			 - Can you prove this claim?

		 - Fear of looking bad
			 - Can you prove this claim?

	 - Is there another question we should be asking?

	 - Resources:
		 - [CoE_Retrospectives_2021.pptx (sharepoint.com)](https://fda.sharepoint.com/:p:/r/sites/CDER-Board-BIG-WFM-COE/_layouts/15/Doc.aspx?sourcedoc=%7BBDC5035A-B467-4B86-8676-8A16C43BF6A0%7D&file=CoE_Retrospectives_2021.pptx&wdLOR=c8C1EEC11-EF30-481A-A11B-575CD4FE8BAF&action=edit&mobileredirect=true)

	 - Frameworks
		 - [[Books: Linchpin]] - A culture of giving rather than for self motivated actions

	 - IPT

	 - Customer Service

	 - Stakeholder Analysis

	 - Advocacy
