- [[Orange Book Project]]
	- [[Orange Book Phase 2 Analysis]]
		- What are the necessary information to communicate out
			- Overview
				- Mision
				- Goal
			- Current System
				- Covered Workflows
				- Systems Integrations
					- Timing of data
					- Data model
				- Shortcomings
					- Missed Projects
			- Lessons Learned
				- Ideal needs vs reality
					- Address shortcomings
			- Phase 2
				- Scoped
				- Risks
				- Data
					- Data needs like timing
					- Access to data and availability
				- Integration
				- Security
				- Critical Success Factors
			- Future phases
				- Scope
				- Data
				- Risks
				- Security
				- Critical Success Factors
- [[Amazon Six-Pager]]
	- Benefits
		- Writing narratives is more difficult and time intensive that creating a PowerPoint presentation. However, the act of writing will force the writer to think and synthesize more deeply compared to how much shallower the thought in creating a slide deck.
			- The ideas born through writing will be better thought out, especially if the author's team has reviewed the document.
		- It forces the author to only present the relevant facts and whittle down one's salient arguments into a cohesive, coherent, and understandable document.
- [[metrics]]
	- Amazon has become successful because they are willing to follow the data and lead, even if the data is pointing them to a place untraveled and unfamiliar. They are willing to seek better ways of doing familiar things. #[[leadership principles]]
- [[Article: The Cognitive Style of PowerPoint]]
	- tags: #Writing #[[q: how to present]] [[Edward Tufte]]
	- source: ((4a148da5-f510-491f-8930-28f9d8f6ee7b))
	- Reference notes:
		- Slideware often reduces the analytical quality of presentation
			- When writing ensure that you demonstrate that the issue has been well analyzed and thought out #comment
		- In your writing ensure to prevent over-generalizations by writing in specifics and details to provide context and for your readers to easily evaluate relationships. Provide evidence to your claims and demonstrate how you connect the dots to your readers. #comment
		- Avoid bullet points because they leave out critical relationships unspecified as lists can only communicate three logical relationships and only one at a time.
			- sequence
			- priority
			- simple membership in a set
		- Bullet lists are faux analytical, they make it seem that the organized is organized.