- [[Sri]] Meeting Prep
	- Problems with OBI
		- Lack of postmortems.
			- Why do we not conduct postmortems for projects that have succeeded and/or failed?
			- What are the dangers when leadership and employees are afraid to take ownership of their decision making.
		- Lack of systematic approach to problem solving
			- Problem statement, decision trees, etc.
- 11:32 [[Michelle Garrett]] Application Resources
	- Resources for Application Review
	- What is the problem?
	- What are options?
	- What are other considerations?
- 12:06 [[Controlled Correspondences]]
	- Is a GDUFA III requirement? The following items are not GDUFA III items.
		- Parallel Reviews
		- CPA
		- Marketing Assessment
		- PSG
		- What are the prioritization of these four intakes?
			- Are they must haves?
			- OBI hasn't agreed that these will four items are going to be releases.
		- What is the definition of done?
		- What is the scope?
		- What is the timeline?
	- What are the GDUFA III enhancements?
	- Next Steps:
		- May need a quick PME to understand the readiness of these four requests.
			- PSG may not be ready for PME.
			- Marketing assessment does not have a process flow
				- PME a candidate for PME
		- Parallel Review
			- Request by one division only
	- [[Q: Reusability for OBI]] is not plug and play. It will still require large of effort because of data tables. For reusability to work the original application has to be built from the start to accommodate reusability.
- 15:00 [[Agile Coaching]]
	- A prioritized backlog is dependent on a smaller scale division of work that's only a few sprints out with a delivery of a functionality that is smaller scale than the full end to end solution.
	- Tim (The WER approach is waterfall dressed up in Agile clothing)