- [[Article - Cognitive Flexibility Theory: The Rules]]
	- # Rule 1: Figure Out If You’re in an Ill-Structured Domain
		- Ill structured domains is where the concepts application and instantiation is highly variable. Structured domains and their, concepts shows up in the same exact way.
		- In software engineering, computer programming is well structured (i.e., for-loops always work the same way), but software design isn't (architectural approaches may vary by implementation, depending on the problem space.)
		- Most domains are a mix of both well defined and ill structured concepts/principles.
		- Approaching the domains are different:
			- For well structured domains studying the concepts or principles is enough. But to study ill-structured domains, we have to look at cases in addition to the concepts and principles.
	- # Rule 2: When Reading Principles or Frameworks, Actively Search for Cases
		- Seek out 10 -20 different cases to provide color of a principle as ill structured domains may have different cases presenting the same principle or concept. The cases should be as different from each other.
	- # Rule 3: Read History for Fragments, Not Lessons
		- When reading business stories or biographies, it’s tempting to reduce the story you’re reading down to a set of pithy lessons.
		- This is not a good idea. Most stories are artefacts of the specific moment in time they occurred. Any lesson you draw from those stories are thus likely to overfit the unique circumstances of the time.
		- A more appropriate way to read biography is to say “ok, this part of the story is an instance of X”, where X is a concept in the domain you’re interested in. That isn’t to say that the concept might instantiate in exactly the same way in the near future — merely that it is one way that it has instantiated.
		- One of the two claims that CFT makes is that experts in ill-structured domains reason by combining fragments of prior cases. They reason by analogy.
		- Why do they do so? The answer that CFT offers up is that it is extremely difficult to reason backwards from case presentation to underlying principles in an ill-structured domain. Cases are often too context-dependent to generalise into universal lessons. At most, we can say “this is one way that such-and-such principle can show up” — and then we can poke at the structural factors that led to it looking like that, though we cannot fully know all the factors involved.
		- As a result, you’ll get far more traction treating biography as a way to build up your collection of concept instantiations. Don’t bother trying to distill it down to atomised takeaways. Have some faith that your brain will draw from the fragments of stories you’ve collected, when you need to, in the future.
	- # Rule 4: Reasoning by Analogy is … OK!
		- Don't dismiss analogies. We aren't saying that this analogy or anecdote necessarily applies to all cases, but it may apply to you.
		- To bring fuller concepts to analogies, is to reference a number of them to provide a broader context and understanding.
	- # Rule 5: Focus on the Differences in Cases, Not Just the Similarities!
		- It is important to look for differences when studying cases under a principle or concepts. Don't only look for similarities. In ill-structured domains cases have emergent properties that are greater than the sum of their parts. They are also context dependent and lend themselves to multiple ways of knowledge presentation.
			- A frame or lens may work when applied to one case but not in another. Concentrating on the differences reminds us to fight against our bias to look for similarities alone.
	- # Rule 6: Search for Stories That Are Relevant To The Framework, But Might Not Fit
		- CFT tells us that experts in ill-structured domains “avoid rigidity in understanding, remaining open instead, with an appreciation for the sometimes limitless range of uses of knowledge in new combinations, for new purposes, in new situations.” That’s a complicated way of saying that not every framework or lens needs to work in every case, and not every case must be explainable with a simple principle, concept, or framework.
		- So, when you learn a new framework, find confirming cases (as per Rule 2) but also remember to find related cases that the lens can’t be easily applied to.
		- The world is complicated, so cases are complicated. And so it goes.