title:: Analysis Handbook (highlights)
author:: [[readwise.io]]
full-title:: "Analysis Handbook"
media:: #articles
url:: https://readwise.io/reader/document_raw_content/35730981

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[2023-02-26]]
	- the AoA is an analytical comparison of the operational effectiveness, suitability, risk, and life cycle cost of alternatives under consideration to satisfy validated capability needs (usually stipulated in an approved ICD) ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsvfjyymssksfpr881qh0q9d))
	- the AoA as a study that is used to assess alternatives that have the potential to address capability needs or requirements that are documented in a validated or approved capability requirements document. The information provided in an AoA helps decision makers select courses of action to satisfy an operational capability need. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsvfmwgt6206svv8qhx66656))
	- the purpose of the AoA is to help decision-makers understand the tradespace for new materiel solutions to satisfy an operational capability need, while providing the analytic basis for performance attributes ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsvfnx8xgg030ck6axs5vq8a))
	- Because every AoA is different, there is no typical starting point. Optimally, the inputs to an AoA include the following, though all may not be available at the start of the AoA: • A clear definition and understanding of the required capability, including high-level mission tasks (MTs) and supporting sub-tasks, quantitative and qualitative measures (e.g., measures of effectiveness (MOE), measures of performance (MOP), and measures of suitability (MOS)), initial threshold and objective standards or criteria associated with the tasks, and the expected conditions and operating environment under which the tasks must perform,6
	  • An overarching operating concept and operational context7 for the required capability and associated employment concepts,
	  • A comprehensive description of the baseline capability (if one exists) which includes the identification of all contributing systems planned and programmed within the current POM/FYDP, ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsvfq56tv5z6pr47sg6wstt3))
	- The identification of the specific capability gaps of the baseline to be addressed by the AoA and an assessment of the related operational risks ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsvfqfyzvs066ffwtp2nhxq8))
	- An assessment of intelligence support required for the potential materiel solutions, ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsvfr66wht15zdejca06zn9z))
	- How many alternatives will be evaluated? Are they part of a complex system of systems? Are there dependencies to be addressed? ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsvfs1fb9v6ndqjypqnwtb11))
	- What relevant analysis has been accomplished to date? How well do we understand the problem space? ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsvfrst9d0te61s7xqvc4nw9))
	- Who in the stakeholder community is available to participate in the effort? How broad and diverse is the stakeholder community? ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsvfsgcdbbs21xggb9jd1g0g))
	- Are the right experts available and can they participate? ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsvfsq0bvpkwsp3jfc6f3p0y))
	- What level of analytic rigor is required? ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsvfszvjpgscb0r4rbx0afpe))
	- When determining the level of effort, it is important to identify areas of study risk associated with any time or resource constraints in the study. Study risks and how they are mitigated can affect the size and composition of the study team and overall conduct of the study. Study risks are associated with the planning and conduct of the study and are different from the risks that will be assessed for the baseline ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsvftk7x8x90b1wn48kn5pe3))
	- and alternative capabilities in the risk assessment part of the AoA.11 These risks must be identified to the AoA Study Guidance approval authority so that the appropriate AoA scope, time, and resources are defined. (Note: If new risks are identified after the study guidance is issued, the AoA Study Plan WIPT must identify these for discussion with the appropriate stakeholders and oversight communities prior to approval of the study plan.) ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsvftss3b6b0cyk53xq95pjm))
	- Time and resource constraints are typically major root causes of study risk. For example, a study conducted with limited time and resources may reach different conclusions (or conclusions based on less rigor) compared to the same study conducted with less constrained time and resources. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsvfv3nnvak3gq5m4a0c1aha))
	- Who are the end-users (e.g., COCOMs, warfighters) of the capability? • What enablers (e.g., intelligence, human systems integration, logistics, and communications) and interdependencies within the solution space are being analyzed in the AoA ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsvfvjt446mmbg8arfk2fz5s))
	- How do the other Services, DoD agencies, and government agencies fit into the mission area being explored in the AoA? ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsvfvrpq960bmwf2bt9g8bgt))
	- The study team should include appropriate members of the stakeholder community (e.g., CFL/lead command, other Air Force commands and agencies, combatant commands, Army, Navy and Marines, DoD, Joint Staff, and other government agencies such as Department of Energy, Department of State, and Department of Homeland Security). ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsvfw14b24a8dpdqy7a16nye))
	- Identifying and developing the guidance and the purpose and scope of an AoA are arguably the most important aspects of study planning, because the purpose and scope will shape all the planning and execution that is to come. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsvfxqcx66krhg1twxasgds1))
	- The first section in the AoA study guidance template describes the purpose of the AoA. The basic purpose of an AoA is to assess the effectiveness, cost, and risks of alternatives that have potential to close or mitigate the capability gaps addressed in the study. The purpose statement should address the three fundamental aspects of the assessment (i.e., effectiveness, cost, and risk) as well as identify the specific gaps that will be addressed. Since the specific capability gaps are described in more detail in the Background section (see Task 4 below), detailed descriptions of the capability gaps are not needed in this section. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsvfy4v4pmdyxyjs48pcged9))
	- The purpose should highlight how the results of the AoA will be used to inform the MDA at the next milestone.25 The MDA determines the milestone that a future program will enter by considering many factors (e.g., level of technology development, urgency of the program). In most AoAs, Milestone A is the next milestone. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsvfybpb94wnrqawnrypj2tp))
	- When determining the scope of the study, the team should consider several factors, including:
	  • the decision to be supported, • the capability gaps to be assessed, • the nature of the capability needed (e.g., high risk or low risk), • previous analyses, • what information is already known and what is not known about the alternatives, • the end-to-end mission effects chain, • a clear understanding of the baseline capability, • DOTmLPF-P implications, • timeframe for the study, • limitations on the study including constraints imposed by time and resources, • guidance from senior leaders. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsvfynnhffb0r1v66jwvty07))
	- Since the AoA is an assessment of potential materiel solutions, the study must be scoped to provide decision-quality analysis and results to inform the MDA and other stakeholders at the next milestone or decision point.
	  In short, the AoA must provide compelling evidence of the capabilities and military
	  worth of the alternatives. The results should enable decision makers to discuss the appropriate cost, schedule, performance, and risk tradeoffs and assess the operational capabilities and affordability of the alternatives. A clear understanding of the decision to be made will help inform the scope of the AoA. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsvh751nje8k7kbj40f6s97z))
	- Risk assessment is a major factor to consider when determining AoA scope. AoAs that fail to examine risks could provide overly optimistic assessments of alternatives. Understanding the technology readiness levels of the proposed alternatives can help shape the scope of the AoA. Comparing risks across alternatives is especially critical for new development programs, which rely on breakthrough technologies and assume that technology will be achieved as planned. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsvh7wjq6ffvz68f06s9s306))
	- The questions themselves must be written in a way that fosters study success. Good study questions will be:
	  • Answerable. There may be valid questions that are simply unanswerable with current analytic methods, or within the available time and resources. If possible, AoA study guidance questions should be written in a way that takes into account the time, data, resources, and methods available to answer the question.
	  • Not written as a yes/no question. Questions written in a yes/no format are not very informative and may inadvertently limit creativity and exploration of answers during the analysis.
	  • Written to highlight important aspects of the tradespace. Questions should drive the analysis to identify key inflection points, knees in the curve, critical tradeoffs in cost and capability, important assumptions and sensitivities, limiting factors, etc., to best inform the decision.
	  This is one of the more difficult sections to develop since it requires some critical thinking and insightful discussion. The OSD(CAPE) AoA Study Guidance Template (Appendix K) is very clear that study questions should not address requirements that are discussed elsewhere in the guidance, but rather probe issues associated with the program. Questions that are inherent in the analysis are redundant to the fundamental purpose of the AoA: to determine the effectiveness, cost, and risk of the alternatives under study and therefore, do not provide additional information or insights. The following are some examples of redundant questions that should not be included in this section: • How effective are the alternatives? • What are the life cycle costs of the alternatives? • How affordable are the alternatives? • What are the most viable alternatives? • What are the risks associated with each alternative? • What are the DOTmLPF-P implications associated with each alternative? • What is the military utility or worth of each alternative and why is this important? ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsvhdkd7sdc7ar8qjty6ga3e))
	- What are the operational benefits and risks associated with each alternative? • What operational environment factors could affect performance? ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsvhds6kcawrcef8b3bh594j))
	- Questions should be substantive to the specific program and, when answered, will highlight important aspects of the tradespace (e.g., how a program would achieve high reliability; how a program might trade lethality versus survivability if cost (or weight) is a limiting factor). Study questions are used to guide the AoA study team in analyzing aspects important to the stakeholders. Teams should plan to draft questions and then solicit feedback on those questions from senior leaders and from all the stakeholders. Some stakeholders may have a different point of view than others; teams should seek to understand these differences before the study starts, and the study questions are a good way to have that dialogue. Usually, multiple iterations will be required before the set of study questions can be finalized and agreed upon. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsvhe68be1zah7c144x7rkeq))
	- Some examples of substantive questions include the following. Typically, these questions will be tailored to capture the context of a specific AoA:
	  • Of the affordable and viable solutions to mitigate the identified capability gap(s), what parts of the gap does each solution mitigate? Why should they be pursued?
	  • For Service-unique solutions, what are potential areas of commonality (e.g., shared technology) with other Service solutions?
	  • Identify if a DoD-specific solution is required; or are there alternative solutions (e.g., commercial, international, partnerships, etc.)?
	  • To what degree does each alternative depend on mission enablers (e.g., intelligence, logistics, communications, training, etc.), both organic and Joint, to accomplish mission objectives?
	  • What are the potential reductions in cost, risk, and time that can be obtained by using systems and components that are off-the-shelf or already in advanced development, and how do these non-developmental solutions compare to developmental solutions in terms of performance?
	  • Given the expected lower cost, risk, and time associated with off-the-shelf systems, how much performance degradation would be acceptable to the Air Force if off-the-shelf systems are chosen?
	  • What is the export potential of each alternative and how might export sales affect DoD costs? • What are the potential cost savings that could result from leveraging maintenance and spares support from existing programs, or using alternative maintenance sustainment concepts that differ from the baseline capability?
	  • How have affordability goals and constraints been included in the program and how will they be achieved? ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsvhf48e8patxd0c4gagq1yw))
	- AoAs are designed to provide decision-quality information to inform decisions. It is therefore important
	  to scope the AoA appropriately to focus on the information required for those decisions. In addition, the WIPT should identify and explain any limitations to the depth and breadth of analysis and impacts on the study (e.g., what study questions will not be answered, what will not be evaluated, what analyses will not be conducted). A clearly and carefully written scope increases the likelihood that the study team will meet the objectives of the study and complete it on time and within budget. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsvhwtxw7mj9v8k5x4z72934))
	- The gaps to be addressed in the AoA should have been prioritized during the CBA and in the ICD; if not, the study team should work with the sponsor to prioritize them. The specific capability gaps that will be addressed in the AoA should also have been identified in the ICD and AoA study guidance. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsvhvrgt34cxeq18d6k3796r))