---
title: Article: My Letter to a Young White Friend
---

- Author:: [[Alfred Turnipseed]]

- Tags:: [[Christianity]] [[racism]]

- Status::#toRead

- Source:: [publicorthodoxy.com](https://publicorthodoxy.org/2020/06/19/my-letter-to-a-young-white-friend/?fbclid=IwAR28TnYSuTOtGD6dSE-McAjIih06V7zslmTVPic-nsnVBqN04_tJpub904o)

- Full Text:
	 - My Letter to a Young White Friend

	 - __by [Alfred D. Turnipseed](https://publicorthodoxy.org/tag/alfred-turnipseed/)__

	 - A cherished friend—a religiously unaffiliated but morally earnest 
young white woman who recently completed her first year at a prestigious
 American university, where she majors in Astrophysics—recently wrote to
 me to tell me that, in light of George Floyd’s murder, she is making 
every effort she can to educate herself about the dynamics and the 
reality of racism and white privilege, so that she can do her part to 
effect lasting and positive change. She shared with me a list of the 
books she’s reading this summer, and asked me my opinion of her 
efforts. She even asked me to tell her of my own experiences as a black 
man who has grown up and grown middle-aged in America. It was not in any
 way an impertinent request. She and I had often enough in the past 
discussed, in a much more general way, how to understand our common 
human predicament in a properly “integral” or “holistic” way; it was 
always probably a natural next step for us to broach the topic of the 
very particular predicament that only some of us must endure.

	 - In any event, below, in a slightly redacted form, is the letter I 
wrote back to her—which, with her enthusiastic permission (mindful that I
 would maintain her anonymity) I reproduce here. It remains very much a 
personal letter in tone and form, and for that I ask pardon in 
advance. But, for just that reason perhaps, it also says more than an 
impersonal essay might have done. After all, genuine friendship—one 
bridging differences in sex, age, race, religion, family origin, 
socioeconomic background, etc.—bears in itself the seed of a 
comprehensive solution to the problems that challenge us all today.

	 - Hey J.!

	 - So good to hear from you and to know that you and your family are safe and healthy! I’m also happy you were able to get your __first year__—perhaps the most challenging year in college—“on the books.”

	 - I’m doing well, and my closest family members are also safe and sound
 (TBTG). As for my response to the recent murder of George Floyd in 
Minneapolis, among other things, I’ve been in dialogue and sharing my 
experiences with a pastor and his church community, whom I’ve come to 
know through their Zoom services. Indeed, what I’ve discovered is that 
taking a spiritual approach to matters of racial justice can make its 
pursuit either more difficult, or much simpler—depending on the group or
 person with whom one is in dialogue.

	 - As you know, some of the most stubborn supporters of racial 
injustice, white supremacy, and white privilege are persons who call 
themselves Christians. Why, I just read an article by a Christian who 
claimed that [“anti-racism” (as he called it) is the “new American religion,”](https://theopolisinstitute.com/leithart_post/americas-new-religion)
 as if it’s a threat to, or in competition with, Christianity.  
Moreover, he couldn’t understand why African Americans, who are killed 
more frequently by other African Americans than by police, seem to get 
far more upset by the latter.

	 - Needless to say, J., only someone resting on white privilege could 
come up with such nonsense. I won’t even address the idea of an 
“anti-racism religion,” since that’s the kind of nonsense that only an 
unenlightened white intellectual (or, if a person of color, then only a 
self-hating and deluded one) could dream up. As for the author’s second 
argument, however, I __will__ address it since it’s such a popular line with closeted racists.

	 - Needless to say, our good Christian author fails to mention that 
within any demographic, those who are murdered tend to be so mostly by 
other members of that same demographic. Why? Because most murderers and 
their victims know each other or live in the same communities. 
Therefore, it’s not only the case that blacks are more likely to be 
killed by other blacks than by the police; it is also true that whites 
are far more likely to be killed by other whites than by the police (or,
 indeed, than by blacks).

	 - Of course, this isn’t the point; this isn’t why African Americans 
tend to be more upset by police killings than by killings arising from 
within our communities. The answer should be obvious: society empowers 
police forces with special authority __precisely so as__ to enforce __our__ laws, __especially__ the
 laws against killing innocent human beings. We have police forces so 
that we rank-and-file citizens won’t have to take the law into our own 
hands, and so that we all won’t have to go around with guns and other 
weapons, defending ourselves and our families from known and unknown 
threats to life, liberty, and property (in that order).

	 - Now, what if the police forces, whom I, as a citizen—along with you 
and other citizens—have empowered especially to enforce the laws that __we __have made and to protect __all__ the
 people, should themselves turn out to be violators of the 
law: destroyers of human life and liberty, and sometimes even property? I
 think it’s obvious this is something much more egregiously evil (and 
systemic) than the wickedness of a common killer. After all, when the 
police murder, they do so “under the veil of the law”; they don’t just 
commit a terrible crime, but they abuse the public trust__.__ They violate their oath to “serve and protect” us—__all__ of
 us, including African Americans, including me—which is the reason for 
which they were granted special powers and authority to begin with.

	 - And the fact is that African Americans, whose population remains 
a mere fraction of white Americans’ (the white population is 
approximately five times larger than the black population), are killed 
by police at a much higher__ rate__ than whites. In fact, black 
Americans are 2.5 times as likely as white Americans to be shot and 
killed by police officers in the course of a police intervention, even 
for the same infractions, and far too many of these killings are wholly 
unjustified. (If whites were being killed by the police at this rate, 
they’d be upset, too—and much more so, if they knew that the rate for 
other races were considerably lower.) In other words, it seems that, 
overall, police killing of blacks (and other forms of police 
brutality)—along with the overall unfairness of the criminal justice 
system towards African Americans (more later…see the links below)—is an 
openly racist form of state suppression and control of African American 
populations. Nor is it alarmist or irrational to see that the ultimate 
goal and logic of this suppression and control is to disrupt and 
destroy African American families and communities, thereby keeping 
blacks in political, legal, educational, economic, domestic, 
psychological, and spiritual distress, and maintaining the __status quo__ of white supremacy.

	 - Anyway, I have attached a list of links below to aid you in your explorations of these issues.

	 - Let me, though, shift topic somewhat and try to explain why a proper 
approach to spirituality makes the quest for racial justice much easier:
 at the end of the day, the notion of equal dignity, like justice, is a 
spiritual concept. It can’t be derived, ultimately, from a materialistic
 worldview. It’s useless to try.

	 - From a materialistic standpoint, human beings, like all living things, are __not__
 equal. True, all the old racialist claims that there are general 
inequalities of general competency and “fitness” are statistical 
fictions and ideological lies.  But between any two individuals there 
are countless kinds of advantage one might enjoy over the other, or 
powers that one might possess and the other lack. Some are stronger, 
faster, smarter, more fertile, more immune to disease, more efficient at
 converting food into energy, less susceptible to mortal injury, and 
have access to more and better resources than others.

	 - Indeed, in the world of nature, the strong dominate the weak, and 
that’s all there is to it. And while there are many instances of “intra-
 and inter-species cooperation” built into the natural order of things, 
all this is determined by genetics, epigenetics, and instinct. 
Otherwise, competition, conflict, and violence prevail—“nature, red in 
tooth and claw,” as Alfred Lord Tennyson famously said.

	 - If, therefore, there is indeed such a concept as “equality of dignity
 and rights”—such that each individual is equal to every other; women 
are equal to men; black persons and brown persons are equal to white 
persons; homosexuals (gays and lesbians), bisexuals and asexuals are 
equal to heterosexuals (straights); the poor are equal to the wealthy; 
unbelievers are equal to believers; the governed are equal to the 
governors; the workers are equal to the capitalists; singles, the 
divorced, and the widowed are equal to the married; children (pre-born 
and born), the (physically and mentally) challenged, the sick, and the 
elderly are equal to healthy adults in their prime; the so-called 
“impure” are equal to the so-called “pure”; etc.—this isn’t something 
that’s derived from the material (the quantitative) or even the 
intellectual (the qualitative) ingredients of different persons, since 
these all differ from one person to the next.

	 - The single element within humanity that makes us all equal is, of 
course, the human spirit, or the soul. Without implicit belief in such a
 concept, it’s well nigh impossible to assert and demonstrate the notion
 of “equal dignity and rights,” a notion so many of us (even many 
materialists) hold dear.

	 - Now, for genuinely and consciously spiritual and religious people—__not__ those
 Christians, Muslims, Jews, Neo-Vedantists, Buddhists, Bahá’ís and 
others who merely give lip-service to spirituality and religion—this 
notion of “equal dignity and rights” comes naturally (albeit, not 
necessarily without interior struggle), since we hold it as a matter of 
faith. It’s part of the overall worldview—the __vision__—that we share. For persons of faith, the notion of “equal dignity and rights” is a (spiritual) __law __of human nature__. __It’s
 as real to believers as are gravity, electro-magnetism, and the strong 
and weak nuclear forces (which operate by physical laws in material 
nature or matter) to those who study quantum physics and cosmology.

	 - Therefore, when I’m sharing my African American experience with, say, white persons of genuine faith—and I mean __genuine__—I’m
 always received with openness, joy, and love (even if they recognize 
within themselves a need for deeper conversion), because they implicitly
 grasp that my demand, namely, that my equal dignity and rights, be 
“real-ized” in day-to-day life. It isn’t merely a matter concerning 
“political correctness” or just “getting along,” much less “political 
expediency.” On the contrary, they grasp that my demand is simply a 
matter of Truth, Truth that is universal.

	 - I don’t have (first) to “prove,” through philosophical argument or 
scientific experiment, that I’m equal, or “earn” equality through force,
 to prevail with a person of __genuine__ faith. For such a person, I __am__ equal;
 like them, like everyone, I am created “in the image and likeness of 
God,” and I am therefore a “child of God”—no ifs, ands or buts. For 
persons of faith, then, the only question is this: How can we, together,
 “real-ize” everyone’s equal dignity and rights most efficiently, 
effectively, and lovingly, given the specific strengths and weaknesses 
of the persons near whom, and the society in which we live? In any case,
 J., it’s so wonderful to hear from you! Please, always (and at your 
leisure—no pressure) keep in touch. And may God deeply bless you, your 
family, your studies, and your future career. As I’ve said to you so 
many times in the past, I know you’re destined to do great 
things…and you’re already doing them.

	 - Peace always,

	 - Alfred

	 - I’m amazed by all the reading you’re doing on racism and white 
privilege, J.! Please pardon me if I add a few things to your list. What
 follows are a few links to various articles. Much of the information 
contained therein is similar to what you’ll find in the books on your 
reading list, including information about the question of “dismantling” 
or “defunding” the police. What I like about the articles, though, is 
that they’re brief and easily transmitted to others, via text, email, or
 Facebook (among several other forms of social media). So feel free to 
read, forward, and post away!

	 - 1. [We Must Dismantle White Supremacy: Silence is Not an Option](https://www.benjerry.com/about-us/media-center/dismantle-white-supremacy)

	 - 2. [Aren’t More white People than Black People Killed by Police? Yes But No](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-nation/wp/2016/07/11/arent-more-white-people-than-black-people-killed-by-police-yes-but-no/)

	 - 3. [2018 Crime Statistics in the United States](https://ucr.fbi.gov/crime-in-the-u.s/2018/crime-in-the-u.s.-2018/tables/expanded-homicide-data-table-6.xls)

	 - 4. [The Biggest Lie in the White Supremacist Playbook: Unraveling the Truth about “Black on White” Crime](https://www.splcenter.org/20180614/biggest-lie-white-supremacist-propaganda-playbook-unraveling-truth-about-‘black-white-crime)

	 - 5. [Police and Public Discourse on “Black-on-Black” Violence](https://www.hks.harvard.edu/sites/default/files/centers/wiener/programs/pcj/files/PoliceandPublicDiscourseBlackonBlackViolence.pdf)

	 - 6. [Defunding the Police: What Does It Mean?](https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2020/jun/05/defunding-the-police-us-what-does-it-mean?CMP=oth_b-aplnews_d-1)

	 - 7. [What Happened to Crime in Camden?](https://www.citylab.com/equity/2018/01/what-happened-to-crime-in-camden/549542/)

	 - 8. [George Floyd’s Brother’s Testimony before the House Judiciary Committee](https://www.cnn.com/2020/06/10/politics/testimony-transcript-philonise-floyd/index.html)

	 - 9. [Cornel West’s speech on Floyd Family (Anderson Cooper)](https://www.cnn.com/videos/us/2020/06/10/cornel-west-george-floyd-cooper-ac360-vpx.cnn)

	 - As for this next link, J., I know you’re sensitive to the problem of 
“white centering.” (Indeed, your messages indicate this.) Nevertheless, 
if I may be so bold, I’m sending this to you—assuming you haven’t 
already read it or something like it—to help you better __articulate__ your sensitivity, and to help you help others.

	 - 10. [What Is White Centering](https://parade.com/1047143/jessicasager/what-is-white-centering/)

	 - __Alfred D. Turnipseed is an African American Orthodox Christian 
whose primary avocation is religious education. A beloved brother, 
uncle, and father to one terrific cat, he lives in South Bend, Indiana.__
