---
title: Book: The Phoenix Project
---

- author: [[Gene Kim]]
- #[[Literature Notes]]
	- When designing processes, ensure that you design for quality output from the earliest stages.
- #[[Reference Notes]]
	- “**If we redesign the process, we need to have the right people involved upfront**. This is like the manufacturing engineering group ensuring that all parts are designed so that they are optimized for manufacturing and that the manufacturing lines are optimized for the parts, ideally in single-piece flow.”
	- “**If you can’t out-experiment and beat your competitors in time to market and agility, you are sunk**. Features are always a gamble. If you’re lucky, ten percent will get the desired benefits. So the faster you can get those features to market and test them, the better off you’ll be. Incidentally, you also pay back the business faster for the use of capital, which means the business starts making money faster, too.
	- **Business agility is not just about raw speed. It’s about how good you are at detecting and responding to changes in the market and being able to take larger and more calculated risks.**
	- 5. “You’ve got to figure out how to decrease your changeover time and enable faster deployment cycle time.
	- 6. “We combined four work centers into one, eliminating over thirty manual, error-prone steps, completely automating the work cycle, achieving single-piece flow, and eliminating all that setup time. Throughput went through the roof. “The benefits were enormous,” he says with pride. “First, when defects were found, we fixed them immediately and we didn’t have to scrap all the other parts in that batch. Second, WIP was brought down because each work center never overproduced product, only to sit in the queue of the next work center. But the most important benefit was that order lead times were cut from one month to less than a week. We could build and deliver whatever and however many the customer wanted and never had a warehouse full of crap that we’d need to liquidate at fire-sale prices.
	- **“As part of the Second Way, you need to create a feedback loop that goes all the way back to the earliest parts of product definition, design, and development,” he says.**
	- 8. “You’ve got to stop thinking like a work center supervisor. You need to think bigger, like a plant manager. Or better yet, think like the person who designed this manufacturing plant and all of the processes it relies upon. They look at the entire flow of work, identify where the constraints are, and use every possible technology and bit of process knowledge they have to ensure work is performed effectively and efficiently.
	- 9. Turning around, he says, **“In any system of work, the theoretical ideal is single-piece flow, which maximizes throughput and minimizes variance. You get there by continually reducing batch sizes.**
	- **Second Way, creating constant feedback loops from IT Operations back into Development, designing quality into the product at the earliest stages.**
	- Repetition, especially for things that require teamwork, creates trust and transparency.
		- As Erik keeps reminding me, a great team performs best when they practice. Practice creates habits, and habits create mastery of any process or skill.
	- **The need to continually reduce cycle times is part of the First Way. The need for amplification of feedback loops, ideally from the customer, is part of the Second Way.**
	- “**That preventive work supports the most important objectives of the company.** How do we know? We started from the measures that Dick cares about most.”
	- “You’ll be ready for your meeting with Dick when you’ve built out the value chains, linking his objectives to how IT jeopardizes it. Assembling concrete examples of how IT issues have jeopardized those goals in the past. Make sure you’re prepared.”
	- **“Our organizational key performance indicator (KPI) is on-time delivery. So to achieve it, you would create a new forward-looking KPI of, say, the percentage of vehicles that have had their required oil changes performed. “After all, if only fifty percent of our vehicles are complying with the required maintenance policies, it’s a good bet that in the near future, our on-time delivery KPIs are going to take a dive, when trucks start getting stranded on the side of the road, along with all the packages they’re carrying.**
	- 21. Go talk to the business process owners for the objectives on Dick’s second slide. Find out what their exact roles are, what business processes underpin their goals, and then get from them the top list of things that jeopardize those goals. “You must understand the value chains required to achieve each of Dick’s goals, including the ones that aren’t so visible, like those in IT. For instance, if you were a cross-country freight shipping company that delivers packages using a fleet of one hundred trucks, one of your corporate goals would be customer satisfaction and on-time delivery.”
	- 24. And like when Mr. Sphere told everyone in Flatland, you must leave the realm of IT to discover where the business relies on IT to achieve its goals.” I hear him continue, “Your mission is twofold: You must find where you’ve under-scoped IT—where certain portions of the processes and technology you manage actively jeopardizes the achievement of business goals—as codified by Dick’s measurements. And secondly, John must find where he’s over-scoped IT, such as all those SOX-404 IT controls that weren’t necessary to detect material errors in the financial statements.
	- 25. “This is all about scoping what really matters inside of IT.
	- 26. “As part of the First Way, you must gain a true understanding of the business system that IT operates in. W. Edwards Deming called this ‘appreciation for the system.’ When it comes to IT, you face two difficulties: On the one hand, in Dick’s second slide, you now see that there are organizational commitments that IT is responsible for helping uphold and protect that no one has verbalized precisely yet. On the other hand, John has discovered that some IT controls he holds near and dear aren’t needed, because other parts of the organization are adequately mitigating those risks.
	- 27. Are we competitive? Understanding customer needs and wants: Do we know what to build? Product portfolio: Do we have the right products? R&D effectiveness: Can we build it effectively? Time to market: Can we ship it soon enough to matter? Sales pipeline: Can we convert products to interested prospects? Are we effective? Customer on-time delivery: Are customers getting what we promised them? Customer retention: Are we gaining or losing customers? Sales forecast accuracy: Can we factor this into our sales planning process?
	- 28. First Way. He’s talking about systems thinking, always confirming that the entire organization achieves its goal, not just one part of it.
	- 29. You’ve just found a big pile of recurring work! If we can document and standardize this recurring work, and gain some mastery over it, just like you did with laptop replacement, I’m sure we can improve flow!”
	- 30. “We’re doing what Manufacturing Production Control Departments do. They’re the people that schedule and oversee all of production to ensure they can meet customer demand. When they accept an order, they confirm there’s enough capacity and necessary inputs at each required work center, expediting work when necessary. They work with the sales manager and plant manager to build a production schedule so they can deliver on all their commitments.”
	- 31. We need to keep Brent’s capacity up by reducing the amount of unplanned work that hits him.”
	- 32. Unless the project reduces his workload or enables someone else to take it over, maybe we shouldn’t even be doing it. On the other hand, if a project doesn’t even require Brent, there’s no reason we shouldn’t just do it.” I say assertively, “Give me three lists.
	- 33. How does one objectively decide whether “consolidating and upgrading e-mail server” is more or less important than “upgrading thirty-five instances of SQL databases”?
	- 34. “What I’ve done,” she continues, “is take some of our most frequent service requests, documented exactly what the steps are and what resources can execute them, and timed how long each operation takes.
	- 35. “A critical part of the Second Way is making wait times visible, so you know when your work spends days sitting in someone’s queue—or worse, when work has to go backward, because it doesn’t have all the parts or requires rework.
	- 36. Just as important as throttling the release of work is managing the handoffs. The wait time for a given resource is the percentage that resource is busy, divided by the percentage that resource is idle. So, if a resource is fifty percent utilized, the wait time is 50/50, or 1 unit. If the resource is ninety percent utilized, the wait time is 90/10, or nine times longer. And if the resource is ninety-nine percent utilized?”
	- 37. “Rother calls this the Improvement Kata,” he continues. “He used the word kata, because he understood that repetition creates habits, and habits are what enable mastery. Whether you’re talking about sports training, learning a musical instrument, or training in the Special Forces, nothing is more to mastery than practice and drills. Studies have shown that practicing five minutes daily is better than practicing once a week for three hours. And if you want to create a genuine culture of improvement, you must create those habits.”
	- 38. “Mike Rother says that it almost doesn’t matter what you improve, as long as you’re improving something. Why? Because if you are not improving, entropy guarantees that you are actually getting worse, which ensures that there is no path to zero errors, zero work-related accidents, and zero loss.”
	- 39. “Properly elevating preventive work is at the heart of programs like Total Productive Maintenance, which has been embraced by the Lean Community. TPM insists that we do whatever it takes to assure machine availability by elevating maintenance. As one of my senseis would say, ‘Improving daily work is even more important than doing daily work.’ The Third Way is all about ensuring that we’re continually putting tension into the system, so that we’re continually reinforcing habits and improving something. Resilience engineering tells us that we should routinely inject faults into the system, doing them frequently, to make them less painful.
	- 40. “Properly elevating preventive work is at the heart of programs like Total Productive Maintenance, which has been embraced by the Lean Community. TPM insists that we do whatever it takes to assure machine availability by elevating maintenance. As one of my senseis would say, ‘Improving daily work is even more important than doing daily work.’ The Third Way is all about ensuring that we’re continually putting tension into the system, so that we’re continually reinforcing habits and improving something. Resilience engineering tells us that we should routinely inject faults into the system, doing them frequently,
	- 41. “Properly elevating preventive work is at the heart of programs like Total Productive Maintenance, which has been embraced by the Lean Community.
	- 42. “You said that we always need to be looking for ways to elevate the constraint, which means I need to do whatever is required to get more cycles from Brent. That’s exactly what the monitoring project does!”
	- 43. “Well, to be more accurate, you’re actually building a bill of resources. That’s the bill of materials along with the list of the required work centers and the routing. Once you have that, along with the work orders and your resources, you’ll finally be able to get a handle on what your capacity and demand is. This is what will enable you to finally know whether you can accept new work and then actually be able to schedule the work.”
	- 44. “every work center is made up of four things: the machine, the man, the method, and the measures. Suppose for the machine, we select the heat treat oven. The men are the two people required to execute the predefined steps, and we obviously will need measures based on the outcomes of executing the steps in the method.”
	- 45. When you spend all your time firefighting, there’s little time or energy left for planning. When all you do is react, there’s not enough time to do the hard mental work of figuring out whether you can accept new work. So, more projects are crammed onto the plate, with fewer cycles available to each one, which means more bad multitasking, more escalations from poor code, which mean more shortcuts.
	- 46. ‘technical debt’ that is not being paid down. It comes from taking shortcuts, which may make sense in the short-term. But like financial debt, the compounding interest costs grow over time. If an organization doesn’t pay down its technical debt, every calorie in the organization can be spent just paying interest, in the form of unplanned work.”
	- 47. Solving any complex business problem requires teamwork, and teamwork requires trust. Lencioni teaches that showing vulnerability helps create a foundation for that.
	- 48. Being able to take needless work out of the system is more important than being able to put more work into the system. To do that, you need to know what matters to the achievement of the business objectives, whether it’s projects, operations, strategy, compliance with laws and regulations, security, or whatever.”
	- 49. Step 1 is to identify the constraint.
	- 50. Remember, any improvement not made at the constraint is just an illusion, yes?
	- 51. “Step 2 is to exploit the constraint,” he continues. “In other words, make sure that the constraint is not allowed to waste any time. Ever. It should never be waiting on any other resource for anything, and it should always be working on the highest priority commitment the IT Operations organization has made to the rest of the enterprise. Always.”
	- 52. Remember, unplanned work kills your ability to do planned work, so you must always do whatever it takes to eradicate it. Murphy does exist, so you’ll always have unplanned work, but it must be handled efficiently.
	- 53. “You’ve put together tools to help with the visual management of work and pulling work through the system. This is a critical part of the First Way, which is creating fast flow of work through Development and IT Operations. Index cards on a kanban board is one of the best mechanisms to do this, because everyone can see WIP. Now you must continually eradicate your largest sources of unplanned work, per the Second Way.”
	- 54. “You’ve put together tools to help with the visual management of work and pulling work through the system. This is a critical part of the First Way, which is creating fast flow of work through Development and IT Operations. Index cards on a kanban board is one of the best mechanisms to do this, because everyone can see WIP. Now you must continually eradicate your largest sources of unplanned
	- 55. “Precisely!” I hear Erik say. “You even used the term I like most for it: unplanned work. Firefighting is vividly descriptive, but ‘unplanned work’ is even better. It might even be better to call it ‘anti-work,’ since it further highlights its destructive and avoidable nature. “Unlike the other categories of work, unplanned work is recovery work, which almost always takes you away from your goals. That’s why it’s so important to know where your unplanned work is coming from.”
	- 56. “Precisely!” I hear Erik say. “You even used the term I like most for it: unplanned work. Firefighting is vividly descriptive, but ‘unplanned work’ is even better. It might even be better to call it ‘anti-work,’ since it further highlights its destructive and avoidable nature. “Unlike the other categories of work, unplanned work is recovery work, which almost always takes you away from your goals. That’s why it’s so important to know where your unplanned work is coming from.” I
	- 57. Unplanned work is what prevents you from doing it. Like matter and antimatter, in the presence of unplanned work, all planned work ignites with incandescent fury, incinerating everything around it.
	- 58. three of the four categories of work: business projects, internal projects, and changes.
	- 59. I realize that changes are the third category of work.
	- 60. “The 80/20 rule likely applies here: Twenty percent of the changes pose eighty percent of the risk.”
	- 61. Three Ways,” he says. “The First Way helps us understand how to create fast flow of work as it moves from Development into IT Operations, because that’s what’s between the business and the customer. The Second Way shows us how to shorten and amplify feedback loops, so we can fix quality at the source and avoid rework. And the Third Way shows us how to create a culture that simultaneously fosters experimentation, learning from failure, and understanding that repetition and practice are the prerequisites to mastery.”
	- 62. “Your job as VP of IT Operations is to ensure the fast, predictable, and uninterrupted flow of planned work that delivers value to the business while minimizing the impact and disruption of unplanned work, so you can provide stable, predictable, and secure IT service.”
	- 63. now everyone knows that you don’t release work based on the availability of the first station. Instead, it should be based on the tempo of how quickly the bottleneck resource can consume the work.”
	- 64. He shakes his head incredulously. “I could hardly believe it. I tell him, ‘Your station is just the first of twenty operations. You don’t factor the availability of any of the other nineteen stations in your decision?’ And he replies, ‘Well, no. This is the way I’ve done it for twenty years.’”
	- 65. “You probably don’t even see when work is committed to your organization. And if you can’t see it, you can’t manage it—let alone organize it, sequence it, and have any assurance that your resources can complete it.”