tags:: innovation, [[managing up]], management, leadership
napkin.one:: todo

- **author:** [[Adam Grant]]
- **status:** #[[📥inbox]]
- **link:**
- #[[Literature Notes]]
	- [[Seek out broad perspective over great depth for creativity.]]
	- [[Risk taking is not a requirement to be original.]]
	- [[Take opportunities freely. The more you experience and do, the more likely that your output is more creative.]]
- #[[Reference Notes]]
	- 1: Creative Destruction (The Risky Business of Going Against the Grain)
		- ^^I learned that great creators don't necessarily have the deepest expertise but rather seek out the broadest perspectives^^.
		  id:: 22e8bd84-e371-4b17-9704-000bdd20d030
		- I saw how success is not usually attained by being ahead of everyone else but by waiting patiently for the right time to act. Procrastinating can be good.
		- Years ago, psychologists discovered that there are two routes to achievement: conformity and originality.
			- Conformity means following the crowd down conventional paths and maintaining the status quo.
			- Originality is taking the road less traveled, championing a set of novel ideas that go against the grain but ultimately make things better. 
			  id:: 3df91a2d-86e0-427e-b3fb-55cbe5cbb359
		- [[Originality]] itself starts with creativity: generating a concept that is both novel and useful. But it doesn't stop there. Originals are people who take the initiative to make their visions a reality.
		- ^^Employees who take initiative and change their work environment are more likely to stay at their work^^. When they encountered a situation they didn't like, they fixed it. Having taken the initiative to improve their circumstances, they had little reason to leave. They created the jobs they wanted.
			- (The employee is only willing to stay at the job if their work environment is willing to listen and work to enact the change, otherwise the employee can grow dissatisfied and leave.)
		- "People who suffer the most from a given state of affairs are paradoxically least likely to question, challenge, reject, or change it"
			- Justifying the default system serves as a soothing function. It's an emotional painkiller: If the world is supposed to be this way, we don't need to be dissatisfied with it. But acquiescence also robs us of the moral outrage to stand against injustice and the creative will to consider alternative ways the world could work.
		- We live in an Internet Explorer world. Just as almost two thirds of the customer service reps used the default browser on their computers, many of us accept the defaults in our own lives. In a series of provocative studies, a team led by political psychologist John Jost explored how people responded to undesirable default conditions. Compared to European Americans, African Americans were less satisfied with their economic circumstances but perceived economic inequality as more legitimate and just. Compared to people in the highest income bracket, people in the lowest income bracket were 17 percent more likely to view economic inequality as necessary. And when asked whether they would support laws that limit the rights of citizens and the press to criticize the government if enacting such legislation was necessary to solve our nation's problems, twice as many people in the lowest income bracket were willing to give up the right to free speech as those in the highest income bracket. After finding that disadvantaged groups consistently support the status quo more than advantaged groups, Jost and his colleagues concluded: "People who suffer the most from a given state of affairs are paradoxically the least likely to question, challenge
			- (Don't feel embarrassed or question yourself for trying to change the status quo. It takes bravery and risk to put yourself out there. Doing so will increase your learning while the risk averse will grow slower.)
		- Child prodigies, it turns out, rarely go on to change the world. When psychologists study history's most eminent and influential people, they discover that many of them weren't unusually gifted as children. And if you assemble a large group of child prodigies and follow them for their entire lives, you'll find that they don't outshine their less precocious peers from families of similar means
			- Although child prodigies are often rich in both talent and ambition, what holds them back from moving the world forward is that they don't learn to be original. As they perform in Carnegie Hall, win the science Olympics, and become chess champions, something tragic happens: ^^Practice makes perfect, but it doesn't make new.^^ The gifted learn to play magnificent Mozart melodies and beautiful Beethoven symphonies, but never compose their own original scores. ^^They focus their energy on consuming existing scientific knowledge, not producing new insights.^^ They conform to the codified rules of established games, rather than inventing their own rules or their own games
				- (People who stick to the rules, policies, and procedures are less original and limit innovation and synthesis of new knowledge. If we see others push for rule following and you think it's a bad directive, then don't be afraid to go to another direction). #leadership
			- The least favorite students were the non-conformists who made up their own rules. Teachers tend to discriminate against highly creative students, labeling them as troublemakers. In response, many children quickly learn to get with the program, keeping their original ideas to themselves. In the language of author William Deresiewicz, they become the world's most excellent sheep.
		- ^^When achievement motivation goes sky-high, it can crowd out originality: The more you value achievement, the more you come to dread failure.^^ Instead of aiming for unique accomplishments, the intense desire to succeed leads us to strive for guaranteed success #[[Q - How do we create value at work?]]
			- The drive to succeed and the accompanying fear of failure have held back some of the greatest creators and change agents in history. Concerned with maintaining stability and attaining conventional achievements, they have been reluctant to pursue originality
		- When I compared the choices of the Warby Parker team to my mental model of the choices of successful entrepreneurs, they didn't match. Neil and his colleagues lacked the guts to go in with their guns blazing, which led me to question their conviction and commitment. They weren't serious about becoming successful entrepreneurs: They didn't have enough skin in the game. In my mind, they were destined to fail because they played it safe instead of betting the farm. But in fact, this is exactly why they succeeded. I want to debunk the myth that originality requires extreme risk taking and persuade you that originals are actually far more ordinary than we realize. In every domain, from business and politics to science and art, the people who move the world forward with original ideas are rarely paragons of conviction and commitment. As they question traditions and challenge the status quo, they may appear bold and self-assured on the surface. But when you peel back the layers, the truth is that they, too, grapple with fear, ambivalence, and self-doubt. We view them as self-starters, but their efforts are often fueled and sometimes forced by others.
		- ^^To be an original, you need to take radical risks. This belief is embedded so deeply in our cultural psyche that we rarely even stop to think about it. But this is a wrong attitude. We can be both original and safely change our environment. ^^
		  id:: 90aad173-8253-4c9b-bda3-b92f8b7b2926
			- We don't need to be unsafe risk takers to be original.
		- If you're risk averse and have some doubts about the feasibility of your ideas, it's likely that your business will be built to last. If you're a freewheeling gambler, your startup is far more fragile.
		  id:: 2d4667ec-f205-47cb-8893-3801ddaa20b8
		- But don't day jobs distract us from doing our best work? Common sense suggests that creative accomplishments can't flourish without big windows of time and energy, and companies can't thrive without intensive effort. Those assumptions overlook the central benefit of a balanced risk portfolio: Having a sense of security in one realm gives us the freedom to be original in another.  By covering our bases financially, we escape the pressure to publish half-baked books, sell shoddy art, or launch untested businesses
		- They determined that the least effective leaders [Presidents] were those who followed the will of the people and the precedents set by their predecessors. ^^The greatest presidents were those who challenged the status quo and brought about sweeping changes that improved the lot of the country. But these behaviors were completely unrelated to whether they cared deeply about public approval and social harmony.^^
			- Catering to the approval of the masses can hurt the process of creating change.
		- By definition, new ideas are fraught with uncertainty, and powerful evidence illuminates how we can hone our skills in separating the wheat from the chaff, to avoid the risks of betting on bad ideas and passing on good ones. After you spot a promising idea, the next step is to communicate it effectively.
		- I'll start with the dilemma of timing: It turns out that you should be wary of being the first mover, because it's often riskier to act early than late. Unexpectedly, some of the greatest creative achievements and change initiatives in history have their roots in procrastination, and the tendency to delay and postpone can help entrepreneurs build companies that last, leaders guide transformation efforts, and innovators maintain their originality
	- Blind Inventors and One-Eyed Investors (The Art and Science of Recognizing Original Ideas)
		- But in reality, the biggest barrier to originality is not idea generation—it's idea selection
		- If originals aren't reliable judges of the quality of their ideas, how do they maximize their odds of creating a masterpiece? They come up with a large number of ideas. Simonton finds that on average, ^^creative geniuses weren't qualitatively better in their fields than their peers. They simply produced a greater volume of work, which gave them more variation and a higher chance of originality.^^ "The odds of producing an influential or successful idea," Simonton notes, are "a positive function of the total number of ideas generated."
			- (To learn faster, take more opportunities and don't be afraid to fail)
			  id:: 42721cde-075b-40de-aa57-4687844805ea
		- Across fields, Simonton reports that the most prolific people not only have the highest originality; they also generate their most original output during the periods in which they produce the largest volume
		  id:: 5dd347eb-0f72-447d-a9e0-751469811f0c
			- ^^It's widely assumed that there's a tradeoff between quantity and quality—if you want to do better work, you have to do less of it—but this turns out to be false. In fact, when it comes to idea generation, quantity is the most predictable path to quality.^^ "Original thinkers," Stanford professor Robert Sutton notes, "will come up with many ideas that are strange mutations, dead ends, and utter failures. The cost is worthwhile because they also generate a larger pool of ideas—especially novel ideas
			- Many people fail to achieve originality because they generate a few ideas and then obsess about refining them to perfection
		- The best way to get better at judging our ideas is to gather feedback. Put a lot of ideas out there and see which ones are praised and adopted by your target audience.
			- (Don't be afraid of negative or critical feedback, these are usually the type of feedback that is helpful)
		- ^^Conviction in our ideas is dangerous not only because it leaves us vulnerable to false positives, but also because it stops us from generating the requisite variety to reach our creative potential.^^
			- (Always take the stance that you are wrong and find to get feedback to prove otherwise. Always seek to disprove your stance instead of assuming you are on the right position.)
		- **Managers tend to be too risk averse: they focus on the costs of investing in bad ideas rather than the benefits of piloting good ones, which leads them to commit a large number of false negatives**.
			- (What are the other impacts to decision making, critical thinking and behaviors that a risk averse personality has.)
		- In the face of uncertainty, our first instinct is often to reject novelty, looking for reasons why unfamiliar concepts might fail
		- Rice professor Erik Dane finds that ^^the more expertise and experience people gain, the more entrenched they become in a particular way of viewing the world.^^ He points to studies showing that expert bridge players struggled more than novices to adapt when the rules were changed, and that expert accountants were worse than novices at applying a new tax law. As we gain knowledge about a domain, we become prisoners of our prototypes
		- So neither test audiences nor managers are ideal judges of creative ideas. They're too prone to false negatives; they focus too much on reasons to reject an idea and stick too closely to existing prototypes
			- (Are managers also not good at judging and seeing possible issues?)
		- ^^And we've seen that creators struggle as well, because they're too positive about their own ideas. But there is one group of forecasters that does come close to attaining mastery: fellow creators evaluating one another's ideas.^^ In Berg's study of circus acts, the most accurate predictors of whether a video would get liked, shared, and funded were peers evaluating one another
			- (Can we set a process to check with PMs to see if our concerns are real concerns).
			- When artists assessed one another's performances, they were about twice as accurate as managers and test audiences in predicting how often the videos would be shared
		- ^^We often speak of the wisdom of crowds, but we need to be careful about which crowds we're considering.^^ On average, the combined forecasts of all 120 circus managers were no better than a typical single creator's predictions. Managers and test audiences tended to fixate on a particular category of favored acts and reject the rest. Creators were more open to different kinds of performances—they saw potential in peers who did aerial and ground acrobatics, but also in skilled jugglers and mimes
			- **Instead of attempting to assess our own originality or seeking feedback from managers, we ought to turn more often to our colleagues. They lack the risk-aversion of managers and test audiences; they're open to seeing the potential in unusual possibilities, which guards against false negatives. At the same time, they have no particular investment in our ideas, which gives them enough distance to offer an honest appraisal and protects against false positives.**
			- Berg wanted to boost the chances that people would correctly rank a novel, useful idea first, as opposed to favoring conventional ideas. He randomly assigned half of the participants to think like managers by spending six minutes making a list of three criteria for evaluating the success of new products. This group then made the right bet on a novel, useful idea 51 percent of the time. But the other group of participants was much more accurate, choosing the most promising new idea over 77 percent of the time. All it took was having them spend their initial six minutes a little differently: instead of adopting a managerial mindset for evaluating ideas, they got into a creative mindset by generating ideas themselves. Just spending six minutes developing original ideas made them more open to novelty, improving their ability to see the potential in something unusual.
			- ^^Once you take on a managerial role, it's hard to avoid letting an evaluative mindset creep in to cause false negatives.^^
				- Berg demonstrated this in an experiment by asking people to generate product ideas and then come up with a list of evaluation criteria, and subsequently measured the success of the ideas with an actual audience. Thinking like creators and then donning the manager hat dropped their forecasting accuracy to 41 percent
			- If we want to increase our odds of betting on the best original ideas, we have to generate our own ideas immediately before we screen others' suggestions
			- It is when people have moderate expertise in a particular domain that they're the most open to radically creative ideas.
				- Ludwin's deep experience in comedy gave him the necessary expertise in humor; his broad experience outside sitcoms prevented him from getting blinded to alternative ways of delivering it. Instead of narrowly scrutinizing what made a sitcom a hit, he had cast a wider net in studying what made comedy in general succeed: You never know where the next big hit is coming from. It can come from left field. If you think, "That can't possibly work because that producer doesn't have enough experience, or no idea like that has ever worked"—if you have those kinds of roadblocks in your head, you're going to miss something. One of the best things that I had going for me was the fact that I had never developed a primetime situation comedy, but I was accustomed to offbeat, off-kilter ideas. I could see what worked, and what didn't work. The time I spent reading Saturday Night Live scripts made me more open to the offbeat storylines that are now legendary on Seinfeld.
			- **If you're gonna make connections which are innovative," Steve Jobs said back in 1982, "you have to not have the same bag of experience as everyone else does."**
				- Working outside the sitcom department may have been Rick Ludwin's greatest advantage. "Larry [David] and Jerry had never written a sitcom, and my department had never developed one," Ludwin recalls. "We were a good match, because we didn't know what rules we weren't supposed to break." His outsider status gave him enough detachment from the standard format of sitcoms to consider something different
			- This unique combination of broad and deep experience is critical for creativity. In a recent study comparing every Nobel Prize–winning scientist from 1901 to 2005 with typical scientists of the same era, both groups attained deep expertise in their respective fields of study. But the Nobel Prize winners were dramatically more likely to be involved in the arts than less accomplished scientists
				- (Does the benefits of arts extend to only the arts or just a broad and varied experience? Can a different work background help? Can someone gain the same benefits by working and exposing themselves to different fields and subjects. This seems to point to reading a variety of topics.)
				- Just as scientists, entrepreneurs, and inventors often discover novel ideas through broadening their knowledge to include the arts, we can likewise gain breadth by widening our cultural repertoires.
			- To accurately predict the success of a novel idea, it's best to be a creator in the domain you're judging.
				- New research led by Erik Dane shows us why: ^^our intuitions are only accurate in domains where we have a lot of experience.^^
					- In one experiment, people looked at ten designer handbags and judged whether they were real or fake. Half the participants had only five seconds to guess, which forced them to rely on their gut feelings. The other half had thirty seconds, which allowed them to inspect and analyze the features. Dane's team also measured their handbag experience—some had a lot, owning more than three handbags made by Coach or Louis Vuitton, whereas others had never touched a designer bag.
					- Experienced handbag owners were 22 percent more accurate when they had just five seconds than when they had thirty seconds. When you've spent years studying handbags, intuition can beat analysis, because your unconscious mind excels at pattern recognition. If you stop and take the time to think, it's easy to lose the forest in the trees.
				- Non-experts make sounder judgments when they conduct a thorough analysis
				- As Nobel Prize–winning psychologist Daniel Kahneman and decision expert Gary Klein explain, intuitions are only trustworthy when people build up experience making judgments in a predictable environment
		- In a rapidly changing world, the lessons of experience can easily point us in the wrong direction. And because the pace of change is accelerating, our environments are becoming ever more unpredictable. This makes intuition less reliable as a source of insight about new ideas and places a growing premium on analysis
			- If you're confronting a patient's symptoms as a doctor or entering a burning building as a firefighter, experience will make your intuitions more accurate. There's a stable, robust relationship between the patterns you've seen before and what you encounter today. But if you're a stockbroker or political forecaster, the events of the past don't have reliable implications for the present. Kahneman and Klein review evidence that experience helps physicists, accountants, insurance analysts, and chess masters—they all work in fields where cause-and-effect relationships are fairly consistent. But admissions officers, court judges, intelligence analysts, psychiatrists, and stockbrokers didn't benefit much from experience.
		- There's a hubris that comes with success," Komisar explains. Had he pushed back harder about his concerns, "Steve Jobs would've probably said, 'You just don't get it.'" Research in the transportation and airline industries backs Komisar up. ^^The more successful people have been in the past, the worse they perform when they enter a new environment. They become overconfident, and they're less likely to seek critical feedback even though the context is radically different. ^^
			- Jobs was in one of these success traps: with his track record and his history of proving naysayers wrong, he didn't bother to check his intuition by gathering input from enough creators with relevant domain knowledge. And his intuition led him further astray when he encountered Dean Kamen's presentation style.
		- The more intuitive investors were, the greater their odds of being swayed by an entrepreneur's passion.
			- As Daniel Kahneman explains in Thinking, Fast and Slow, intuition operates rapidly, based on hot emotions, whereas reason is a slower, cooler process. Intuitive investors are susceptible to getting caught up in an entrepreneur's enthusiasm; analytical investors are more likely to focus on the facts and make cold judgments about the viability of the business. Jobs's intuitive style predisposed him to get swept away by Kamen's passion and the inherent novelty of the technology. And his hubris and inexperience with transportation left him vulnerable to trusting what would eventually be revealed as a false positive.
		- If we want to improve our idea selection skills, we shouldn't look at whether people have been successful. We need to track how they've been successful.
		- Instead of limiting access to the ideas and leaving it up to managers to decide which ones to pursue and implement, Warby Parker made the suggestions completely transparent in a Google document. Everyone in the company could read them, comment on them online, and discuss them in a biweekly meeting. This means that, just as Justin Berg recommends, the ideas are evaluated not only by managers, but also by fellow creators—who tend to be more open to radically novel ideas. The time employees spend generating ideas makes them better at discerning which suggestions from their colleagues are worthwhile.
			- (What tools can we develop to help promote transparency and communication)
	- 3: Out on a Limb (Speaking Truth to Power)
		- Leaders and managers appreciate it when employees take the initiative to offer help, build networks, gather new knowledge, and seek feedback. ^^But there's one form of initiative that gets penalized: speaking up with suggestions. ^^In one study across manufacturing, service, retail, and nonprofit settings, the more frequently employees voiced ideas and concerns upward, the less likely they were to receive raises and promotions over a two-year period. And in an experiment, when individuals voiced their objections to racism, they were criticized as self-righteous by those who failed to speak out against it. When we climb up the moral ladder, it can be rather lonely at the top.
		- We need to tease apart two major dimensions of social hierarchy that are often lumped together: power and status. ^^Power involves exercising control or authority over others; status is being respected and admired. ^^
			- In an experiment led by University of North Carolina professor Alison Fragale, people were punished for trying to exercise power without status. When people sought to exert influence but lacked respect, others perceived them as difficult, coercive, and self-serving. Since they haven't earned our admiration, we don't feel they have the right to tell us what to do, and we push back. This is what happened to Carmen Medina; her years overseas left her with little status. She hadn't had the opportunity to prove her worth to her colleagues, so they didn't give her ideas any credence. As people dismissed her concerns, she felt her frustration mounting
		- The way to come to power is not always to merely challenge the Establishment, but first make a place in it and then challenge and double-cross the Establishment."
			- Idiosyncrasy credits accrue through respect, not rank: they're based on contributions. We squash a low-status member who tries to challenge the status quo, but tolerate and sometimes even applaud the originality of a high-status star.
			- After Carmen Medina took the job in security, she spent the next few years making major progress in the digital arena. By doing work that advanced the CIA's mission, she earned the idiosyncrasy credits to champion her vision for knowledge sharing. She was promoted to the executive level
				- **To make our suggestions heard and understood we need to build visible value for our organization. Only when others see that we made valuable contributions can they give us respect.**
				- Since Medina had power, she no longer had to worry as much about how she voiced her ideas. But along the way, to earn the status that eventually gave her power, she did have to alter the way she spoke. Her shift in strategy shares something with the most bizarre startup pitch you might ever encounter.
		- **But when you're pitching a novel idea or speaking up with a suggestion for change, your audience is likely to be skeptical. Investors are looking to poke holes in your arguments; managers are hunting for reasons why your suggestion won't work. Under those circumstances, for at least four reasons, it's actually more effective to adopt Griscom's form of powerless communication by accentuating the flaws in your idea. The first advantage is that leading with weaknesses disarms the audience**
			- ^^By acknowledging its most serious problems, he made it harder for investors to generate their own ideas about what was wrong with the company. And as they found themselves thinking hard to identify other concerns, they decided Babble's problems weren't actually that severe.^^ Griscom saw this happen in the early Babble board meeting when he first tested his upside-down pitch. "When I led with the factors that could kill the company, the response from the board was the exact opposite: oh, these things aren't so bad. Newton's third law can be true in human dynamics as well: every action has an equal and opposite reaction." Just as presenting negatives can ironically make it more difficult for audiences to think of them, speaking up effectively depends on making the positive features easier to process.
		- When we're aware that someone is trying to persuade us, we naturally raise our mental shields. ^^Rampant confidence is a red flag—a signal that we need to defend ourselves against weapons of influence.^^
			- In her first attempts at speaking up, Carmen Medina failed to acknowledge the limitations of her ideas. She stated it as a fact that the intelligence community needed to share information more openly, making a dangerous argument that solely stressed the benefits of transparency. One friend confided, "Carmen, you talk as if you won't be happy until everyone accepts what you say as the truth." In the second round of speaking up a few years later, she became much more balanced in her presentations, aiming to express "that little bit of doubt by saying, 'Maybe I'm wrong.'"
		- ^^When people only touted the pluses of their ideas, she quickly concluded that "this idea is full of holes; they really haven't thought it through, and they've constructed their slide deck to keep me from figuring it out. When people presented drawbacks or disadvantages, I would become an ally. Instead of selling me, they've given me a problem to solve^^
			- ^^Along with changing the frame of the interaction, being forthright about faults alters how audiences evaluate us^^
			- Prophets of doom and gloom appear wise and insightful," Amabile writes, "while positive statements are seen as having a naïve 'Pollyanna' quality.
			- This is the second benefit of leading with the limitations of an idea: it makes you look smart.
			- The third advantage of being up front about the downsides of your ideas is that it makes you more trustworthy
				- Of course, highlighting weaknesses can backfire if the audience doesn't already recognize them; it can give them ammunition to shoot down your idea. But Griscom's audiences were already skeptical, and they were going to find out about many of the problems anyway during due diligence
			- A fourth advantage of this approach is that it leaves audiences with a more favorable assessment of the idea itself, due to a bias in how we process information.
		- This explains why we often undercommunicate our ideas. They're already so familiar to us that we underestimate how much exposure an audience needs to comprehend and buy into them.
			- If we want people to accept our original ideas, we need to speak up about them, then rinse and repeat
			- One explanation for this effect is that exposure increases the ease of processing. An unfamiliar idea requires more effort to understand. The more we see, hear, and touch it, the more comfortable we become with it, and the less threatening it is.
			- But in the context of speaking up, people rarely oversaturate their audiences.
			- ^^Overall, the evidence suggests that liking continues to increase as people are exposed to an idea between ten and twenty times, with additional exposure still useful for more complex ideas. Interestingly, exposures are more effective when they're short and mixed in with other ideas, to help maintain the audience's curiosity. ^^
				- It's also best to introduce a delay between the presentation of the idea and the evaluation of it, which provides time for it to sink in. If you're making a suggestion to a boss, you might start with a 30-second elevator pitch during a conversation on Tuesday, revisit it briefly the following Monday, and then ask for feedback at the end of the week
		- As much as agreeable people may love us, they often hate conflict even more. Their desire to please others and preserve harmony makes them prone to backing down instead of sticking up for us. "Because agreeable people value cooperation and conform to norms, they should not be inclined to make waves and upset interpersonal relationships," management researchers Jeff LePine and Linn Van Dyne wrote after studying voice. It is often the prickly people who are more comfortable taking a stand against others and against convention. As a Google employee put it, disagreeable managers may have a bad user interface but a great operating system.
		- Disagreeable people, in contrast, experienced the greatest joy when they were criticizing, confronting, or challenging others.
		- In the decision to speak up, whom we choose as our audience matters as much as how we deliver our message. When we speak up to agreeable audiences, their instinct is to nod and smile. In their effort to be accommodating and avoid conflict, they often shy away from offering critical feedback. Disagreeable managers are more inclined to challenge us, improving our ability to speak up effectively
		- **Instead of speaking up to audiences who are highly agreeable, we're better off targeting suggestions to people with a history of originality. Research shows that when managers have a track record of challenging the status quo, they tend to be more open to new ideas and less threatened by contributions from others. They care more about making the organization better than about defending it as it stands. They're motivated to advance the organization's mission, which means they're not so loyal that they turn a blind eye to its shortcomings**
		- Social scientists have long demonstrated this middle-status conformity effect. If you're perched at the top, you're expected to be different and therefore have the license to deviate. Likewise, if you're still at the bottom of a status hierarchy, you have little to lose and everything to gain by being original. ^^But the middle segment of that hierarchy—where the majority of people in an organization are found—is dominated by insecurity. Now that you have a bit of respect, you value your standing in the group and don't want to jeopardize it.^^ To maintain and then gain status, you play a game of follow-the-leader, conforming to prove your worth as a group member. As sociologist George Homans observed, "Middle-status conservatism reflects the anxiety experienced by one who aspires to a social station but fears disenfranchisement." The fall from low to lower hardly hurts; the fall from middle to low is devastating.
			- Middle-status conformity leads us to choose the safety of the tried-and-true over the danger of the original.
			- ^^As Carmen Medina moved up the ranks, she learned that it was more effective to voice ideas upward and downward, and spent less time attempting to make suggestions to middle managers.^^ Senior leaders saw her as one of the rare employees who believed there were things wrong with the agency, and also believed it could change. Her credibility was further bolstered by a growing following of junior colleagues
		- Similarly, when women offer suggestions for improvement, managers judge them as less loyal than men and are less likely to implement their proposals. Especially in male-dominated organizations, women pay a price for exercising voice
			- Because it was part of her job to put information online, she no longer needed to worry about appearing too aggressive as she voiced her ideas for transparency. "In the early nineties when it all blew up, my commitment to this change was confused with my personal frustration at not advancing in my career. It was always me-focused," Medina tells me. "The whole second chapter of this journey was really very different from the first chapter. I was mission focused." Extensive research shows that when women speak up on behalf of others, they avoid backlash, because they're being communal.
				- But this only holds true when there's clear evidence of their competence. For minority-group members, it's particularly important to earn status before exercising power. By quietly advancing the agenda of putting intelligence online as part of her job, Carmen Medina was able to build up successes without attracting too much attention.
			- Once Medina had accumulated enough wins, she started speaking up again—and this time, people were ready to listen. Rosette has discovered that when women climb to the top and it's clear that they're in the driver's seat, people recognize that since they've overcome prejudice and double standards, they must be unusually motivated and talented. But what happens when voice falls on deaf ears?
		- **What got me heard," Dubinsky explains, "was output and impact. People saw me as somebody who could make things happen. If you become known as someone who delivers, you do your job and do it well, you build respect." She had earned status before exercising power, so she had idiosyncrasy credits to cash in.**
		- In the quest for originality, neglect isn't an option. Persistence is a temporary route to earning the right to speak up. But in the long run, like neglect, persistence maintains the status quo and falls short of resolving your dissatisfaction. To change the situation, exit and voice are the only viable alternatives.
			- Years ago, Hirschman alerted us to a major drawback of exit. Although it has the advantage of altering your own circumstances, it doesn't make them better for anyone else, as it enables the status quo to endure. "Voice feeds," Hirschman argued, "on the lack of opportunity for exit.
			- The lesson here is that voice isn't inherently superior to exit. In some circumstances, leaving a stifling organization can be a better path to originality. The best we can do is voice our opinions and secure our risk portfolios, preparing for exit if necessary. If our bosses evolve, as Jobs did, there's a case to be made for sticking around and speaking up. But if they don't, and our audiences lack the openness to consider a shift in direction, we may find better opportunities elsewhere.
	- 4: Fools Rush In (Timing, Strategic Procrastination, and the First-Mover Disadvantage)
		- Procrastination might be conducive to originality. When you procrastinate, you're intentionally delaying work that needs to be done. You might be thinking about the task, but you postpone making real progress on it or finishing it to do something less productive. Shin proposed that when you put off a task, you buy yourself time to engage in divergent thinking rather than foreclosing on one particular idea. As a result, you consider a wider range of original concepts and ultimately choose a more novel direction. I challenged her to test it.
		- Procrastination didn't always fuel creativity: if the employees weren't intrinsically motivated to solve a major problem, stalling just set them behind. But when they were passionate about coming up with new ideas, putting off the task led them to more creative solutions.
		- Procrastination may be the enemy of productivity, but it can be a resource for creativity.
		- Leonardo's studies of how light strikes a sphere, for example, enable the continuous modeling of the "Mona Lisa" and "St. John the Baptist." His work in optics might have delayed a project, but his final achievements in painting depended on the experiments. . . . Far from being a distraction—like many of his contemporaries thought—they represent a lifetime of productive brainstorming, a private working out of the ideas on which his more public work depended. . . . If creative procrastination, selectively applied, prevented Leonardo from finishing a few commissions—of minor importance when one is struggling with the inner workings of the cosmos—then only someone who is a complete captive of the modern cult of productive mediocrity . . . could fault him for it. Productive mediocrity requires discipline of an ordinary kind. It is safe and threatens no one. ^^Nothing will be changed by mediocrity. . . . But genius is uncontrolled and uncontrollable. You cannot produce a work of genius according to a schedule or an outline.^^
		- Procrastination proved especially fruitful for creative work. The science stars "used procrastination as a form of incubation to stave off a premature choice of a scientific problem or solution."
			- As one explained: "Often when I am procrastinating, I really have something on the back burner and I need the time to work it through."^^ Another said: "In scientific work, ideas need time to mature," and procrastination is one way to "restrain that urge to respond prematurely." ^^After poring over the interviews with these precocious thinkers and doers, Subotnik's team drew a curious conclusion. "Paradoxically," they wrote, those with "the most and least at stake . . . were the most likely to procrastinate in the creative domain.
		- Years ago, Berkeley psychologist Donald MacKinnon discovered that the most creative architects in America tended to be more spontaneous than their technically skilled but unoriginal peers, who rated themselves higher in self-control and conscientiousness.
		- the most successful organizations were run by executives who admitted that they often wasted time before settling down to work and sometimes failed to pace themselves to get things done on time. Although these habits could impede progress on tasks, they opened leaders up to being more strategically flexible
		- Great originals are great procrastinators, but they don't skip planning altogether. They procrastinate strategically, making gradual progress by testing and refining different possibilities
		- After being involved in starting over one hundred companies, Idealab founder Bill Gross ran an analysis ^^to figure out what drove success versus failure. The most important factor was not the uniqueness of the idea, the capabilities and execution of the team, the quality of the business model, or the availability of funding. "The number one thing was timing," Gross reveals. "Timing accounted for forty-two percent of the difference between success and failure."^^
		- Being original doesn't require being first. It just means being different and better
			- Second, there's reason to believe that the kinds of people who choose to be late movers may be better suited to succeed. ^^Risk seekers are drawn to being first, and they're prone to making impulsive decisions. Meanwhile, more risk-averse entrepreneurs watch from the sidelines, waiting for the right opportunity and balancing their risk portfolios before entering^^
			- Third, along with being less recklessly ambitious, settlers can improve upon competitors' technology to make products better. **When you're the first to market, you have to make all the mistakes yourself. **Meanwhile, settlers can watch and learn from your errors. "Moving first is a tactic, not a goal," Peter Thiel writes in Zero to One; "being the first mover doesn't do you any good if someone else comes along and unseats you
		- settlers can observe market changes and shifting consumer tastes and adjust accordingly.
			- In a study of the U.S. automobile industry over nearly a century, pioneers had lower survival rates because they struggled to establish legitimacy, developed routines that didn't fit the market, and became obsolete as consumer needs clarified. Settlers also have the luxury of waiting for the market to be ready. When Warby Parker launched, e-commerce companies had been thriving for more than a decade, though other companies had tried selling glasses online with little success. "There's no way it would have worked before," Neil Blumenthal tells me. "We had to wait for Amazon, Zappos, and Blue Nile to get people comfortable buying products they typically wouldn't order online."
		- **First-mover advantages tend to prevail when patented technology is involved, or when there are strong network effects (the product or service becomes more valuable when there are a greater number of users, as with telephones or social media).** But in the majority of circumstances, your odds of success aren't higher if you go first. And **when the market is uncertain, unknown, or underdeveloped, being a pioneer has pronounced disadvantages.** The key lesson here is that if you have an original idea, it's a mistake to rush with the sole purpose of beating your competitors to the finish line. Just as procrastinating can give us flexibility on a task, delaying market entry can open us up to learning and adaptability, reducing the risks associated with originality
		- **These fundamental differences between conceptual and experimental innovators explain why some originals peak early and others bloom late. Conceptual innovation can be done quickly, because it doesn't require years of methodical investigation.**
			- When Watson and Crick discovered the double helix structure of DNA, they didn't need to wait for data to amass. They had built a three-dimensional theoretical model and examined X-ray images provided by Rosalind Franklin.
			- **In addition, conceptual breakthroughs tend to occur early, because it is easiest to come up with a strikingly original insight when we approach a problem with a fresh perspective. **"Conceptual innovators normally make their most important contributions to a discipline not long after their first exposure to it," Galenson finds.
			- **For this reason, conceptual innovators become less original once they're entrenched in conventional ways of approaching problems.** As Galenson explains: The inability of . . . aging conceptual innovators to match the brilliant achievements of their youth is not a product of their depletion of a stock of some magical elixir of artistry. Instead, it is caused by the impact of accumulating experience. . . . **The real enemies of conceptual innovators are the establishment of fixed habits of thought.** . . .
			- Is there a preferred type of innovation, conceptual vs experimental, in a business environment?
		- Conceptual innovators tend to generate original ideas early but risk copying themselves.
		- The experimental approach takes longer, but proves more renewable: instead of reproducing our past ideas, experiments enable us to continue discovering new ones.
			- Mark Twain published Adventures of Huckleberry Finn at age forty-nine using a "trial-and-error method," scholars note, and "discovered his pliable plot as he went along, writing without a definite resolution or plan in mind." Twain himself commented, "As the short tale grows into the long tale, the original intention (or motif) is apt to get abolished and find itself superseded by a quite different one."
			- **To sustain our originality as we age and accumulate expertise, our best bet is to adopt an experimental approach. We can make fewer plans in advance for what we want to create, and start testing out different kinds of tentative ideas and solutions.** Eventually, if we're patient enough, we may stumble onto something that's novel and useful
		- The time at which we reach our heights of originality, and how long they last, depends on our styles of thinking. When Galenson studied creators, he discovered two radically different styles of innovation: conceptual and experimental. Conceptual innovators formulate a big idea and set out to execute it. Experimental innovators solve problems through trial and error, learning and evolving as they go along. They are at work on a particular problem, but they don't have a specific solution in mind at the outset. Instead of planning in advance, they figure it out as they go
		- Conversely, **while experimental innovation can require years or decades to accumulate the requisite knowledge and skill, it becomes a more sustainable source of originality**
	- 5: Goldilocks and the Trojan Horse (Creating and Maintaining Coalitions)
		- By definition, most efforts to change the status quo involve a movement by a minority group to challenge a majority. Coalitions are powerful, but they are also inherently unstable—they depend heavily on the relationships among individual members
		- We assume that common goals bind groups together, but the reality is that they often drive groups apart.
			- According to Dartmouth psychologist Judith White, a lens for understanding these fractures is the concept of horizontal hostility. Even though they share a fundamental objective, radical groups often disparage more mainstream groups as impostors and sellouts. As Sigmund Freud wrote a century ago, "It is precisely the minor differences in people who are otherwise alike that form the basis of feelings of strangeness and hostility between them."
		- The more strongly you identify with an extreme group, the harder you seek to differentiate yourself from more moderate groups that threaten your values
		- **In seeking alliances with groups that share our values, we overlook the importance of sharing our strategic tactics.** Recently, sociologists Wooseok Jung and Brayden King of Northwestern University and Sarah Soule of Stanford University tracked the emergence of unusual alliances between social movements—like coalitions between environmental and gay-rights activists, the women's movement and the peace movement, and a marine base and a Native American tribe. They found that shared tactics were an important predictor of alliances. Even if they care about different causes, groups find affinity when they use the same methods of engagement. If you've spent the past decade taking part in protests and marches, it's easy to feel a sense of shared identity and community with another organization that operates the same way
		- **To help a change process succeed, a mindset of transparency with how the process will be run to achieve the group's goal is helpful to promote unity among the group members.**
		- **In a popular TED talk and book, Simon Sinek argues that if we want to inspire people, we should start with why.** If we communicate the vision behind our ideas, the purpose guiding our products, people will flock to us. **This is excellent advice—unless you're doing something original that challenges the status quo. When people championing moral change explain their why, it runs the risk of clashing with deep-seated convictions. When creative non-conformists explain their why, it may violate common notions of what's possible.**
		- Remember to champion your cause effectively by starting with sharing why you are doing what you're doing. Start explaining why in your e-mails and in your meeting invites.
		- **Though if the idea is too novel, that you get pushback, then pivot to the "how" instead. The how will less likely invite commentary on why it won't work or other negative use less feedback.**
			- **Shifting the focus from why to how can help people become less radical.**
				- In a series of experiments, when people with extreme political views were asked to explain the reasons behind their policy preferences, they stuck to their guns. Explaining why gave them a chance to affirm their convictions. But when asked to explain how their preferred policies work, they became more moderate. Considering how led them to confront the gaps in their knowledge and realize that some of their extreme views were impractical.
		- **To make position based conversations less difficult, frame the discussion to the "how" to help your conversation partner assess their proposal logically.**
		- **Coalitions often fall apart when people refuse to moderate their radicalism. **
			- That was one of the major failures of the Occupy Wall Street movement, a protest against economic and social inequality that began in 2011. That year, polls showed that the majority of Americans supported the movement, but it soon fell apart. Activist Srdja Popovic marvels that its extreme positioning alienated most of its potential allies. Its fatal error, he argues, was naming the movement after the radical tactic of camping out, which few people find attractive. He believes that had the group simply relabeled itself "The 99 Percent," it might still exist. The Occupy name "implied that the only way you could belong was if you dropped everything you were doing and started occupying something," Popovic writes. "Occupying is still just a single weapon in the enormous arsenal of peaceful protest—and, more to the point, one that tends to invite only a certain type of dedicated person. . . . Movements, which are always fighting uphill battles, need to draw in more casual participants if they are to succeed." "The 99 Percent" is inclusive: it invites everyone to get involved and to use their own preferred tactics. By tempering the[...]
		- In efforts to challenge the status quo, originals often ignore their opponents. If someone is already resisting a change, the logic goes, there's no point in wasting your time on him. Instead, focus on strengthening your ties with people who already support you.** But our best allies aren't the people who have supported us all along. They're the ones who started out against us and then came around to our side.**
			- While we'll have an especially strong affinity toward our converted rivals, will they feel the same way toward us? Yes—this is the second advantage of converting resisters. To like us, they have to work especially hard to overcome their initial negative impressions, telling themselves, I must have been wrong about that person. Moving forward, to avoid the cognitive dissonance of changing their minds yet again, they'll be especially motivated to maintain a positive relationship.
			- Third, and most important, it is our former adversaries who are the most effective at persuading others to join our movements. They can marshal better arguments on our behalf, because they understand the doubts and misgivings of resisters and fence-sitters. And they're a more credible source, because they haven't just been Pollyanna followers or "yes men" all along.
		- psychologist Bert Uchino found that **ambivalent relationships are literally unhealthier than negative relationships.**
			- In one study, having more ambivalent relationships predicted higher rates of stress, depression, and dissatisfaction with life. In another, older adults rated their relationships with the ten most important people in their lives, and completed two anxiety-provoking tasks: delivering a speech with little preparation and taking a rapid-fire math test. The more ambivalent relationships the participants had, the more their heart rates spiked on both tasks.
		- Our instinct is to sever our bad relationships and salvage the ambivalent ones. But the evidence suggests we ought to do the opposite: **cut our frenemies and attempt to convert our enemies.**
		- Instead of avoiding her enemies, Lucy Stone sought them out and actively engaged with them
		- In an experiment, Berg asked people to design a new product to help college students succeed in job interviews. He instructed them to start with the familiar concept of a three-ring binder, and then come up with something novel. Bookstore managers and customers rated the resulting ideas as utterly conventional. According to Berg, the starting point in generating ideas is like the first brushstroke that a painter lays down on a canvas: it shapes the path for the rest of the painting, constraining what we imagine. Beginning with a three-ring binder led Berg's participants down the path of proposing obvious products like a folder with pockets for résumés and business cards—hardly a game-changing idea. To come up with something original, we need to begin from a more unfamiliar place.
		- **To increase our creativity when ideating. Start with something novel or unfamiliar then end with something more known. **Similar to the Lion King movie, where the script first started with Lions and then reframed to the story of Hamlet.
		- **With absolute originality, you can lose people. Executives have to sell it, so they're looking for those handles. It gives them something to hang on to.**
			- (New ideas need something familiar attached to it so it is more readily acceptable to people who are hearing it for the first time.)
		- **First, we need to think differently about values. Instead of assuming that others share our principles, or trying to convince them to adopt ours, we ought to present our values as a means of pursuing theirs. It's hard to change other people's ideals. It's much easier to link our agendas to familiar values that people already hold.**
		- **Second, just as we saw in the case of Meredith Perry's disguising her real objective of creating wireless power, transparency isn't always the best policy. As much as they want to be straightforward with potential partners, originals occasionally need to reframe their ideas to appeal to their audience.**
			- (We need to assess the situation if transparency is the right call for that situation and also consider the past experiences you built with your clients.)
		- **For movement leaders to "succeed in organizing potential recruits, they must strike the appropriate balance between resonating with the existing cultural repertoire and challenging the status quo."**
	- 6: Rebel with a Cause (How Siblings, Parents, and Mentors Nurture Originality)
		- **To become original, we have to be willing to take some risks.** When we go against the grain to upend time-honored traditions, we can never be certain that we'll succeed. As journalist Robert Quillen wrote, "Progress always involves risk. You can't steal second and keep one foot on first base."
		- We assume that younger scientists will be more receptive to rebellious ideas than older scientists, who become conservative and entrenched in their beliefs with age. But remarkably, birth order was more consequential than age. "An 80-year-old laterborn was as open to evolutionary theory as a 25-year-old firstborn," Sulloway writes, arguing that evolutionary theory "only became a historical reality because laterborns outnumbered firstborns 2.6 to 1 in the general population."
		- Overall, laterborns were twice as likely as firstborns to champion major scientific upheavals.
		- As a card-carrying firstborn, I was initially dismayed by these results. But as I learned about birth-order research, I realized that none of these patterns are set in stone. We don't need to cede originality to laterborn children. By adopting the parenting practices that are typically applied primarily to younger children, we can raise any child to become more original.
		- If you're like Robinson, and you consistently challenge the status quo, you operate differently, using instead a logic of appropriateness: What does a person like me do in a situation like this? Rather than looking outward in an attempt to predict the outcome, you turn inward to your identity. You base the decision on who you are—or who you want to be. When we use the logic of consequence, we can always find reasons not to take risks. The logic of appropriateness frees us up. We think less about what will guarantee the outcome we want, and act more on a visceral sense of what someone like us ought to do. And this tendency can be influenced by birth order.
		- **Logic of appropriateness is the method to predict outcomes where you turn inward to your identity. You base the decision on who you are—or who you want to be.**
			- (Your self-defined identity greatly influences your decision. If you see yourself as a leader even though you may not have the given title or authority you will still continue to lead even if you face challenges and barriers.)
		- In one study, people ranked their siblings and themselves on school achievement and rebellion. High academic achievers were 2.3 times as likely to be firstborn as lastborn. Rebels were twice as likely to be lastborn as firstborn. And when asked to write about the few most rebellious or unconventional things they had ever done in their lives, laterborns had longer responses and described more unconventional behaviors. Hundreds of studies point to the same conclusion: although firstborns tend to be more dominant, conscientious, and ambitious, laterborns are more open to taking risks and embracing original ideas. Firstborns tend to defend the status quo; laterborns are inclined to challenge it.* There are two dominant explanations for the laterborn tendency to take risks. One concerns how children themselves handle sibling rivalry; the other, how parents raise younger children differently. Although we can't control birth order, we can influence how it plays out.
		- often. "Firstborns are more risk averse than laterborns," the economists write, noting that the laterborns were also more prone to bad drinking and smoking habits, and were less likely to buy retirement accounts and life insurance packages. Psychologist Dean Simonton explains: "It is not inferior ability that inclines later-borns to perform poorly on standardized tests, to achieve less in school, and to disfavor prestigious occupations. Rather, later-borns may find these first-born preoccupations to represent distasteful quests for authority and conformity."
		- Although it is beginning to gain some legitimacy, the science of birth order has a checkered past and remains controversial today. Birth order doesn't determine who you are; it only affects the probability that you'll develop in a particular way. There are many other contributing factors, both in your biology and your life experience. To isolate the impact of birth order, the research is inherently messy: you can't conduct randomized, controlled experiments, many studies stop at comparing siblings in different families when the more rigorous comparison would be within families, and there's little consensus about how to handle subjects like half siblings, stepsiblings, adopted siblings, deceased siblings, and cousins who share a household. Birth-order experts continue to fundamentally disagree on many of the conclusions. As a social scientist, I felt it was my responsibility to review the evidence and share my observations about what seems most likely to be true. When I examined the data, birth order was a better predictor of personality and behavior than I had expected
		- Niche picking might help to make sense of this mystery. This concept has its roots in the work of the physician and psychotherapist Alfred Adler, who came to believe that Sigmund Freud's emphasis on parenting failed to account for the critical influence of siblings on personality development. Adler argued that because firstborn children start life as only children, they initially identify with their parents. When a younger sibling arrives, firstborns risk being "dethroned" and often respond by emulating their parents: they enforce rules and assert their authority over the younger sibling, which sets the stage for the younger child to rebel.
		- Faced with the intellectual and physical challenges of competing directly with an older sibling, the younger chooses a different way to stand out. "The niche of the responsible achiever is particularly likely to be open for an eldest child," Sulloway writes. "Once this niche is taken, it is difficult for a younger sibling to compete effectively for the same niche."* This depends, of course, on the age distance between siblings. If two children are only a year apart, the younger sibling may be smart enough or strong enough to hold her own; if they're seven years apart in age, the niche is open again for the younger sibling to participate without having to compete directly. In baseball, brothers who were two to five years apart in age were significantly more likely to play different positions than brothers who were less than two years apart or more than five years apart. Jackie Robinson ran track in college, but couldn't beat his older brother Mack, who was five years his senior and won an Olympic silver medal in the 200-meter dash. Robinson ended up differentiating himself by winning the NCAA broad jump championship—and lettering at UCLA in basketball and[...]
		- This rational approach to discipline also characterizes the parents of teenagers who don't engage in criminal deviance and originals who challenge the orthodoxies of their professions. In one study, parents of ordinary children had an average of six rules, like specific schedules for homework and bedtime. Parents of highly creative children had an average of less than one rule and tended to "place emphasis on moral values, rather than on specific rules," psychologist Teresa Amabile reports.
		- If parents do believe in enforcing a lot of regulations, the way they explain them matters a great deal. New research shows that teenagers defy rules when they're enforced in a controlling manner, by yelling or threatening punishment
		- In Donald MacKinnon's study comparing America's most creative architects with a group of highly skilled but unoriginal peers, a factor that distinguished the creative group was that their parents exercised discipline with explanations. They outlined their standards of conduct and explained their grounding in a set of principles about right and wrong, referencing values like morality, integrity, respect, curiosity, and perseverance. But "emphasis was placed upon the development of one's ethical code," MacKinnon wrote. Above all, the parents who raised highly creative architects granted their children the autonomy to choose their own values.
		- When mothers enforce many rules but offer a clear rationale for why they're important, teenagers are substantially less likely to break them, because they internalize them
		- Highlighting consequences for others directs attention to the distress of the person who may be harmed by an individual's behavior, fueling empathy for her. It also helps children understand the role that their own actions played in causing the harm, resulting in guilt. As Erma Bombeck put it, "Guilt is the gift that keeps on giving." The dual moral emotions of empathy and guilt activate the desire to right wrongs of the past and behave better in the future.
	- 7: Rethinking Groupthink (The Myths of Strong Cultures, Cults, and Devil's Advocates)
		- Polaroid fell due to a faulty assumption. Within the company, there was widespread agreement that customers would always want hard copies of pictures, and key decision makers failed to question this assumption. **It was a classic case of groupthink—the tendency to seek consensus instead of fostering dissent. Groupthink is the enemy of originality; people feel pressured to conform to the dominant, default views instead of championing diversity of thought.**
			- (How can we question the group think within an organization? Especially when they are leaders or hold authority? What processes can we implement at work to combat and mitigate group think.)
		- **According to Janis, groupthink occurs when people "are deeply involved in a cohesive in-group," and their "strivings for unanimity override their motivation to realistically appraise alternative courses of action.**
		- **Group think maybe construed to deferring to expert or authoritarian thinking where a group of people fail to question authority and instead appease to their leaders' thinking instead of offering their perspective.**
		- Men who handled national security affairs became too close, too personally fond of each other. They tended to conduct the affairs of state as if they were a gentlemen's club. . . . If you are very close . . . you are less inclined, in a debating sense, to drive your opponent to the wall and you very often permit a viewpoint to be expressed and to go unchallenged except in a peripheral way.
			- (Regarding the Bay of Pigs invasion.)
		- When a group becomes that cohesive, it develops a strong culture—people share the same values and norms, and believe in them intensely. And there's a fine line between having a strong culture and operating like a cult
		- When researchers examined successful and failed strategic decisions in top management teams at seven Fortune 500 companies, they discovered that cohesive groups weren't more likely to seek agreement and dismiss divergent opinions. In fact, in many cases, cohesive groups tended to make better business decisions. The same was true in politics. In a comprehensive review, researchers Sally Riggs Fuller and Ray Aldag write, "There is no empirical support. . . . Cohesiveness, supposedly the critical trigger in the groupthink phenomenon, has simply not been found to play a consistent role." **They observe that "the benefits of group cohesion" include "enhanced communication," and members of cohesive groups "are likely to be secure enough in their roles to challenge one another." After carefully combing through the data, Whyte concludes that "cohesiveness should be deleted from the groupthink model.**"
		- In the mid-1990s, a group of experts became curious about how founders shape the destinies of their companies. Led by sociologist James Baron, they interviewed the founders of nearly two hundred high-tech startups in Silicon Valley, spanning computer hardware and software to telecommunications and networking, medical devices and biotech to research, and manufacturing to semiconductors. Baron and his colleagues asked the founders about their original blueprints: What organizational models did they have in mind when they started their companies?
		- Across industries, there were three dominant templates: professional, star, and commitment. The professional blueprint emphasized hiring candidates with specific skills: Founders looked for engineers who could code in JavaScript or C++, or scientists who had deep knowledge about synthesizing proteins.
			- In the **star blueprint, the focus shifted from current skills to future potential, placing a premium on choosing or poaching the brightest hires.** The individuals in question might have less current expertise in a particular area, but they had the raw brainpower to acquire it.
			- Founders with a **commitment blueprint** went about hiring differently. Skills and potential were fine, but cultural fit was a must. **The top priority was to employ people who matched the company's values and culture.**
		- **As fruitful as commitment cultures are in the early stages of an organization's life, over time, they tend to falter.**
			- In the Silicon Valley study, although founders' commitment blueprints gave startups a better chance of surviving and going public, once they did so, they suffered from slower growth rates in stock-market value. Firms with commitment blueprints grew their stock values 140 percent slower than star blueprints and 25 percent slower than professional blueprints; even the bureaucratic blueprint performed better. It seems, as executive coach Marshall Goldsmith says, that what got you here won't get you there.
			- When organizations mature, what goes wrong in commitment cultures? "Commitment firms have greater difficulty attracting, retaining, or integrating a diverse workforce," Baron and his colleagues suggest. There's data to back it up: Psychologist Benjamin Schneider finds that organizations tend to become more homogeneous over time. **As they attract, select, socialize, and retain similar people, they effectively weed out diversity in thoughts and values. **This is especially likely in established firms with strong commitment cultures, where similarity is the basis for hiring, and employees face intense pressure to fit in or get out.
			- When an engineer named Carl Yankowski was hired as the vice president in charge of business imaging for Polaroid, he proposed to acquire a startup with electronic imaging technology. But the CEO, Mac Booth, dismissed the idea and shut down the discussion by announcing that "Polaroid doesn't sell what it didn't invent," reflecting overconfidence in the company's ability to predict the future and create the best products. "I think instant film is going to be the dominant factor in electronic photography, and we know more about that than anyone in the world," Booth said in 1987. "Anyone who says instant photography is dying has his head in the sand." Yankowski recalls that when he recommended finding an external electronics expert to guide the company into the digital age, Booth retorted, "I don't know if I should punch you in the nose or fire you!" There's the reputational risk. Finally, Yankowski gave up and left for Sony, where he launched the PlayStation and nearly doubled revenue within four years.
			- Stanford sociologist Jesper Sørensen finds that** in stable industries, large companies with strong cultures of this type have more reliable financial performance than their peers. When employees are committed to a shared set of goals and values, they can execute effectively in predictable environments. But in volatile settings like the computer, aerospace, and airline industries, the benefits of strong cultures disappear. Once a market becomes dynamic, big companies with strong cultures are too insular: They have a harder time recognizing the need for change, and they're more likely to resist the insights of those who think differently. As a result, they don't learn and adapt, and don't have better or more reliable financial results than their competitors.**
		- **Minority viewpoints are important, not because they tend to prevail but because they stimulate divergent attention and thought,**" finds Berkeley psychologist Charlan Nemeth, one of the world's leading experts on group decisions. **"As a result, even when they are wrong they contribute to the detection of novel solutions and decisions that, on balance, are qualitatively better."**
			- (When working through an idea or process, look for dissenting opinions to prove you wrong. Don't think you're approach is the right way of doing things.)
			- In the investment world, you can only make money if you think different from everyone else. Bridgewater has prevented groupthink by inviting dissenting opinions from every employee in the company. When employees share independent viewpoints instead of conforming to the majority, there's a much higher chance that Bridgewater will make investment decisions no one else has considered and recognize financial trends no one else has discerned. That makes it possible to be right when the rest of the market is wrong.
			- How can we foster dissenting opinions at OBI? Can this be a precursor to a Lessons Learned forum?
			- Dalio included an open-ended prompt for employees to provide feedback. As the feedback poured in, the exercise turned out to be unusually polarizing for a company with strong consensus around principles. Some employees objected to the idea of naming names; others balked at the format. One person said it was "very much Nazi Germany as opposed to idea meritocracy." Another commented that "today's poll is outrageous. . . . It is asking me to choose three people for a piece of feedback that is extremely specific, and highly charged, and do it in a format that is highly impersonal and gives a mean-spirited edge to it." But other employees had the opposite reaction: They felt that Bridgewater was enacting the principles it espoused. If there were people who weren't speaking their minds, they were jeopardizing the nucleus of the culture. One wrote that it "caused me to reflect" and "generated conversation—someone emailed me that she put my name down for not fighting for right—and we got in sync." Another admitted that "this is probably the toughest and most valuable bit of homework I've done in over two years.
		- **While it can be appealing to assign a devil's advocate, it's much more powerful to unearth one. When people are designated to dissent, they're just playing a role. **
			- This causes two problems: They don't argue forcefully or consistently enough for the minority viewpoint, and group members are less likely to take them seriously. "Dissenting for the sake of dissenting is not useful. It is also not useful if it is 'pretend dissent'—for example, if role-played," Nemeth explains. "It is not useful if motivated by considerations other than searching for the truth or the best solutions. But when it is authentic, it stimulates thought; it clarifies and it emboldens.
			- When we are looking for dissenters when designing a solution, it's best to look for people who are passionate about their side.
			- The secret to success is sincerity, the old saying goes: Once you can fake that, you've got it made. In fact, it's not easy to fake sincerity. For devil's advocates to be maximally effective, they need to really believe in the position they're representing—and the group needs to believe that they believe it, too. In one experiment led by Nemeth, groups with an authentic dissenter generated 48 percent more solutions to problems than those with an assigned devil's advocate, and their solutions tended to be higher in quality. This was true regardless of whether the group knew the devil's advocate held the majority opinion or was unsure of the person's actual opinion. And even if a devil's advocate did believe in the minority perspective, informing the other members that the role had been assigned was enough to undermine the advocate's persuasiveness.* Whereas people doubt assigned dissenters, genuine dissenters challenge people to doubt themselves.
		- As founder of a firm that manages investments, why would Dalio spend so much time on a conversation about naming names? If employees can get in sync about making sure that everyone speaks up, they don't need to worry as much about groupthink. Dalio can be confident that members of his staff won't feel pressured to nod and smile whenever he presents an opinion; his whole team will be radically transparent in challenging his assumptions about markets, and they'll be the same with one another.* Decisions will be made based on an idea meritocracy, not a status hierarchy or democracy.
		- **Although everyone's opinions are welcome, they're not all valued equally. Bridgewater is not a democracy. Voting privileges the majority, when the minority might have a better opinion. "Democratic decision making—one person, one vote—is dumb," Dalio explains, "because not everybody has the same believability."***
			- At Bridgewater, every employee has a believability score on a range of dimensions. In sports, statistics for every player's performance history are public. In baseball, before you sign a player, you can look up his batting average, home runs, and steals; assess his strengths and weaknesses; and adjust accordingly. Dalio wanted Bridgewater to work the same way, so he created baseball cards that display statistics on every employee's performance, which can be accessed by anyone at the company. If you're about to interact with a few Bridgewater colleagues for the first time, you can see their track records on seventy-seven different dimensions of values, skills, and abilities in the areas of higher-level thinking, practical thinking, maintaining high standards, determination, open-mindedness yet assertiveness, and organization and reliability.
		- **Hofmann found that a culture that focuses too heavily on solutions becomes a culture of advocacy, dampening inquiry. If you're always expected to have an answer ready, you'll arrive at meetings with your diagnosis complete, missing out on the chance to learn from a broad range of perspectives. *
			- A day after the Columbia shuttle took off, a "mystery object" was seen floating away in orbit. If an inquiry had been launched, the team might have discovered that the mystery object had caused a hole in the left wing, and been able to repair it before hot gas eventually entered the ship.
		- Advocacy is fine if you're on the jury at a courtroom trial. Since all twelve members get to hear the entire case, when it's time to deliberate, they can start debating about whether the defendant is innocent or guilty. But organizational life doesn't work like a courtroom, Hofmann admonishes. It's more like sitting through a twelve-hour trial where each juror hears only one hour of testimony, and no two jurors listen to the same hour. **When every member of a group has different information, inquiry needs to precede advocacy—which means you have to raise the problems before pursuing solutions. To make sure that problems get raised, leaders need mechanisms for unearthing dissenters.**
			- (When supervisors are more concerned with bringing up solutions rather than debate, we come up with overconfident and not well thought out solutions that are inferior if we first unearth the problem, discuss the problem from many perspectives and then design a solution. This process is far more optimal than skipping the debate and straight into solutioning.)
			- To ensure that authentic dissenters voiced their viewpoints earlier, Bock's team created the "Canaries"—a group of trusted engineers across the company who represent diverse viewpoints, and have a reputation both for being sensitive to adverse conditions and for speaking their minds. They took their name from the nineteenth-century practice of using canaries to detect deadly gases in coal mines. Before Google's people operations team introduces a major change in policy, they often run it by the Canaries for critical feedback. They're part advisory board, part focus group, and they've become an invaluable safeguard to make sure Googlers' voices are heard. By reaching out to them in advance, one member of Bock's team explains, "Our biggest complainers become our strongest advocates."
			- Do we create a group of dissenters at OBI or do we have more parrots?
			- **Ray Dalio doesn't want employees to bring him solutions; he expects them to bring him problems. One of his first inventions was the issue log, an open-access database for employees to flag any problem they identify and to rate its severity. **
			- **Getting problems noted is half the battle against groupthink; the other is listening to the right opinions about how to solve them**. The Bridgewater procedure for the latter is to gather a group of credible people to diagnose the problems, share their reasoning, and explore the causes and possible solutions.
				- (How do we create an issue log at OBI?)
			- During regular review cycles, employees rate one another on different qualities like integrity, courage, living in truth, taking the bull by its horns, not tolerating problems, being willing to touch a nerve, fighting to get in sync, and holding people accountable. Between cycles, employees can give real-time, open feedback to anyone in the company. At any time, employees can submit dots, or observations—they assess peers, leaders, or subordinates on the metrics and give short explanations of what they've observed. The baseball cards create a "pointillist picture" of staff members, aggregating across review cycles and dots, and incorporate various assessments that employees take. The cards' display changes over time, revealing who's best suited to play each position, and flagging areas to "rely on" and "watch out for" with green and red lights.
				- When you express an opinion, it's weighted by whether you've established yourself as believable on that dimension. Your believability is a probability of being right in the present, and is based on your judgment, reasoning, and behavior in the past. In presenting your views, you're expected to consider your own believability by telling your audience how confident you are. If you have doubts, and you're not known as believable in the domain, you shouldn't have an opinion in the first place; you're supposed to ask questions so you can learn. If you're expressing a fierce conviction, you should be forthright about it—but know that your colleagues will probe the quality of your reasoning. Even then, you're supposed to be assertive and open-minded at the same time. As management scholar Karl Weick advises, "Argue like you're right and listen like you're wrong.
		- Even if your organization doesn't currently embrace critical upward feedback, holding an open season on leaders might be an effective way to begin changing the culture.
			- At the software company Index Group, CEO Tom Gerrity asked a consultant to tell him everything he did wrong in front of his entire staff of roughly a hundred employees. By role modeling receptivity to feedback, employees across the company became more willing to challenge him—and one another. I've learned to do something similar in the classroom. I collect anonymous feedback from students after the first month, focusing on constructive criticism and suggestions for improvement, and then email the full set of verbatim comments to the entire class. In the next class session, I summarize what I thought were the key suggestions, seek feedback on my interpretations, and propose changes to address these issues. Students often report that this dialogue makes them feel more comfortable in becoming active contributors to improving the class.
		- **It's not just Dalio's openness that makes people comfortable challenging senior leaders. It's the fact that early in the training, employees are encouraged to question the principles.** Rather than waiting for employees to become experienced, Bridgewater reveals that we can start encouraging originality on day one.
			- In most organizations, the socialization period is passive: We're busy learning the ropes and familiarizing ourselves with the culture. By the time we're up to speed, we're already swamped with work and beginning to see the world in the company way. The early period is the perfect time for employees to pay attention to opportunities to improve the culture.
		- One of the initiatives that we introduced was an entry interview. Instead of waiting to ask employees for ideas on their way out, managers hold meetings to learn about new hires' ideas when they first join the organization. It's easier to start a relationship with the door open than to pry open a door that's already been slammed shut.
			- How can we tap into our new employees and ask for their ideas and feedback.
		- This time, Dalio disagreed. "I might be wrong," he qualified, but he explained that **he favored the debate format between believable people, because it was the fastest way to reach the right answer and it enabled them to learn from each other's reasoning.**
			- He had been testing out different cultural practices at Bridgewater for years, and although they're not controlled experiments, he felt he'd seen enough to have a good sense of what works. He believes that thoughtful disagreement between experts creates an efficient marketplace of ideas, where the best ones emerge over time.
			- **Here, we agreed to disagree. Dalio places more faith than I do in the triangulated opinions of experts. For me, a critical test would be assigning some units to rely on believability-weighted debate and others to run experiments, and see which units make better decisions. Then, every unit would try the opposite method and analyze the results again. As a social scientist, my bet is that, on average, groups that make decisions based on experiments will outperform those guided by debate between experts. But only the data will tell**
				- (Can expert opinion beat experimentation. What are the costs and resources needed for experimentation to beat out the council of expertise?)
		- Of course, all of them were driven and imaginative, but I was intrigued by three other qualities on Dalio's list. **"Shapers" are independent thinkers: curious, non-conforming, and rebellious. They practice brutal, nonhierarchical honesty. And they act in the face of risk, because their fear of not succeeding exceeds their fear of failing.**
			- Dalio himself fits this description, and the hurdle facing him now is to find another shaper to fill his shoes. If he doesn't, Bridgewater may vanish like Polaroid's instant pictures. But Dalio knows that preventing group think is about more than the vision of a single leader. The greatest shapers don't stop at introducing originality into the world. They create cultures that unleash originality in others.
	- 8: Rocking the Boat and Keeping It Steady (Managing Anxiety, Apathy, Ambivalence, and Anger)
		- **Practice brutal honesty to create an environment that produces success rather than being driven by your fear of failing.**
		- To overcome fear, why does getting excited work better than trying to calm yourself down? Fear is an intense emotion: You can feel your heart pumping and your blood coursing. In that state, trying to relax is like slamming on the brakes when a car is going 80 miles per hour. The vehicle still has momentum. Rather than trying to suppress a strong emotion, it's easier to convert it into a different emotion—one that's equally intense, but propels us to step on the gas
		- When originals come up with a vision for transforming anxiety into excitement, they usually take it upon themselves to communicate it. But just because it's your idea doesn't mean you're the best person to activate the go system. In a series of experiments, Dave Hofmann and I found that the most inspiring way to convey a vision is to outsource it to the people who are actually affected by it.
		- **The easiest way to encourage non-conformity is to introduce a single dissenter**
		- **When Harvard professor John Kotter studied more than one hundred companies trying to institute major changes, he found that the first error they made was failing to establish a sense of urgency. **
			- Over 50 percent of leaders fell short of convincing their employees that change needed to happen, and it needed to happen now. "Executives underestimate how hard it can be to drive people out of their comfort zones," Kotter writes. "Without a sense of urgency, people . . . won't make needed sacrifices. Instead they cling to the status quo and resist." Otpor! conveyed urgency with slogans like "It's time" and "He's finished." When they announced, "This is the year," it was clear to the Serbians that there was a pressing need to act immediately.
		- If you want people to modify their behavior, is it better to highlight the benefits of changing or the costs of not changing?
			- According to Peter Salovey, one of the originators of the concept of emotional intelligence and now the president of Yale, it depends on whether they perceive the new behavior as safe or risky.
				- If they think the behavior is safe, we should emphasize all the good things that will happen if they do it—they'll want to act immediately to obtain those certain gains.
				- But when people believe a behavior is risky, that approach doesn't work. They're already comfortable with the status quo, so the benefits of change aren't attractive, and the stop system kicks in. Instead, we need to destabilize the status quo and accentuate the bad things that will happen if they don't change.
				- Taking a risk is more appealing when they're faced with a guaranteed loss if they don't. The prospect of a certain loss brings the go system online.
		- To counter apathy, most change agents focus on presenting an inspiring vision of the future. This is an important message to convey, but it's not the type of communication that should come first. If you want people to take risks, you need first to show what's wrong with the present. To drive people out of their comfort zones, you have to cultivate dissatisfaction, frustration, or anger at the current state of affairs, making it a guaranteed loss. "The greatest communicators of all time," says communication expert Nancy Duarte—who has spent her career studying the shape of superb presentations—start by establishing "what is: here's the status quo." Then, they "compare that to what could be," making "that gap as big as possible."
		- Action for Impact
			-