author:: Jimmy Soni

- #[[Literature Notes]]
- #[[Reference Notes]]
	- Chapter 1
	  collapsed:: true
		- Moreover, many of PayPal’s signature achievements emerged from the productive friction of the group—the tension among the product, engineering, and business teams yielding pearls of innovation
			- (Apple and Amazon didn't necessarily lacked friction either. It seems like the personality of Steve Jobs and Bezos overshadowed the contributions of others within Apple and Amazon. Or really any other company with famous leaders like Tesla and Elon Musk. Friction and disagreements can lead to discovery.) [[q - how can we make better decisions]]
	- Chapter 2 - The Pitch
	  collapsed:: true
		- Over meals, they’d discuss the latest developments in technology, philosophy, education, start-ups, and their predictions for the future. It was here that Nosek learned of Thiel’s interest in start-up investing
			- (Smart people are knowledgeable about many subjects and domains not just one. I think it is important to read and expose yourself to different topics.) [[q - How to increase insights]]
		- Unlike other failures, Nosek agonized over Smart Calendar, in part because it had cost his new friend Peter Thiel money. “In my mind, it hurt my relationship with Peter, because I lost his money,” Nosek recalled. But for Thiel, the value of Smart Calendar wasn’t as an investment so much as a crash course in start-ups. Nosek had shared the blow-by-blow account of the company’s rise and fall, walking Thiel through the intricacies of internet marketing, customer acquisition, and product design. **Thiel would later cite his Smart Calendar investment as a rich vein of learning, a failure whose lessons—including choosing cofounders wisely and minimizing competition—paved the way for PayPal’s success.** For Nosek, Thiel’s willingness to continue to speak to him in the aftermath of Smart Calendar’s demise was a lesson, too: it illustrated that losing money in Silicon Valley wasn’t like losing money elsewhere. Here, you earned points for effort—not just for an exit. [[q: How to create a culture of continuous learning?]]
			- (To build a culture of learning and blameless exploration we need to frame the Lessons Learned Lab as a way to give back to your peers and contribute to the greater good of OBI. We can incentivize ownership of problems as a positive and commendable act.)
		- For work breaks, Levchin, Thiel, and Powers played chess and card games, and in these casual contests, Powers saw a striking similarity between Thiel and Levchin: cutthroat competitiveness. Once, sitting at Printers Inc., Powers bested Thiel at a coin game called 3-5-7 (also known as “the matchstick game”). Frustrated, Thiel paused the contest to run the game’s underlying math with paper and pencil. Calculations complete, Thiel beat Powers in every subsequent round. “I learned a lot about Peter from doing that,” Powers recalled. **“He’s going to make decisions based on some type of scientific basis, rather than just shooting the gun and see where it goes later”** #[[q: How do we increase the benefits from reading]] #[[q - How to increase insights]]
			- If you can break down a problem to its fundamental principles you will have a more informed decision making process and have better outcomes.
	- Chapter 3 - The Right Questions
	  collapsed:: true
		- At one point, Elon came across an article about Dr. Peter Nicholson, an executive at the Bank of Nova Scotia. Nicholson was educated in physics and operations research and brought his scientific acumen into the world of politics, policy, and finance. He was elected to Nova Scotia’s House of Assembly and served as the deputy chief of staff for policy in the Office of the Prime Minister of Canada. Over a diverse career, Nicholson had worked on everything from punch-card computer problems to rights-sharing agreements among Canada’s fishing companies. Musk was intrigued, so he contacted the article’s author, who shared Nicholson’s phone number, which Musk promptly dialed. “I think it’s fair to say that Elon is the only person who ever called me out of the blue and asked me for a job,” Nicholson remembered. Impressed by Musk’s gumption, he agreed to meet Elon and Kimbal for a meal. Over lunch, they discussed “philosophy, economics, the way the world works,” and Musk confirmed his perception from the article that Nicholson was “super smart… a giant brain.” They broached the subject of an internship, and Nicholson said he had one spot on his small Scotiabank team. Feeling that Nicholson’s scientific interests mirrored his own, Elon chose to take the spot, and Nicholson took him under his wing as his sole intern
			- Smart people will want to work for others who they look up to and admire. Elon Musk pursued an internship at the Bank of Nova Scotia, because of finance but to learn from Nicholson. Try to learn and expose yourself to smart people.
		- **He recalled to biographer Ashlee Vance a moment in which he publicly humiliated a colleague by correcting his work in front of others—thereby poisoning the relationship. “Eventually, I realized, ‘Okay, I might have fixed that thing, but I’ve made that person unproductive.’ It just wasn’t a good way to go about things,” he said.**
	- Chapter 4 - What Matters to Me is Winning
	  collapsed:: true
		- **In 1999, Payne packed for Palo Alto—where he soon got his first impression of Musk. “Very high energy,” Payne remembered. “Very much let’s go, let’s get going and do something, build something, achieve something.” At Musk’s home one day, Payne walked into the bedroom. “The room was literally filled with books—biographies or stories about business luminaries and how they succeeded,”** Payne said, “In fact, I remember sitting there and at the top of this stack was a book about Richard Branson. It kind of clicked to me that Elon was prepping himself and studying to be a famous entrepreneur. He had some superordinate goal that was driving him.
		- “One of the things that Elon was highly adept at, which frankly I underestimated… was on the VC side,” Fricker said. “He would articulate what was wrong with the industry. You know, the big monoliths, the lack of democracy in pricing… everybody would get all fired up.
			- **When pitching an idea, make sure you can clearly articulate what is wrong with the current environment.**
		- Fricker and Payne had run models about X.com’s growth and revenue, but the numbers on the financial superstore model didn’t seem to add up. “This was all a little bizarre to me. My training was very classic Wall Street. Very fact-based. Very numerical. Very much spreadsheets and sort of forced complexity around what you thought the future was going to be,” Payne said. “It was logical and mechanical, especially around how I thought you analyze risk and opportunity.”To Musk, the models didn’t add up because the assumptions baked into the models were false. “What was more potent than the mathematical exercise was the story,” Payne would appreciate later, “and Elon was very good at pointing to the future—just as he is today—and saying the objective is over there, and I know it’s over there, and we should all go over there.” Even in hyperrational Silicon Valley, vision weighed as much as data. “There’s a reason why entrepreneurs who succeed in the technology world get paid as well as they do—it’s because it’s not a straight line between I build the factory and the widgets come out and the widgets get sold,” Payne said
			- When making decisions based on data and models, make sure that the underlying methodologies to arrive at the numbers and data are sound. Don't be blindly fooled by the numbers and data without making sure their foundations are firm. #[[q - how can we make better decisions]]
		- Programming, like writing, was halting and uncertain—less paint-by-numbers than most appreciated. “It’s not linear, and you might burn three hours going this way, and you go, aw, shit, and you don’t want to tell someone you went down the blind alley,” Ho said. But those blind alleys mattered: At Zip2, Musk had learned that start-up success wasn’t just about dreaming up the right ideas as much as discovering and then rapidly discarding the wrong ones. “You start off with an idea, and that idea is mostly wrong. And then you adapt that idea and keep refining it and you listen to criticism,” he’d tell an audience years later. “And then engage in sort of a recursive self-improvement… keep iterating on a loop that says, ‘Am I doing something useful for other people?’ Because that’s what a company is supposed to do.” **Too much precision in early plans, he believed, cut that iterative loop prematurely.** #[[q - How to make our knowledge more actionable]]
			- Document both successes and journeys to roads that led to nowhere so you can further refine ideas and improve future processes and projects. Find a way for the organization to constantly learn and not hide learning. Make the organization learning public.
		- Harris Fricker regretted how things ended. “I would have handled things very differently,” he said. He believed he should have been more open to Musk’s strategy of courting investors and the press with a vision of what could be—as opposed to what was already built. “Where I was wrong is that I should have suspended my traditional business judgment and realized that wasn’t all that odd back then.
		- There were other concerning signs, too. Levchin and Thiel were having a hard time selling enterprise customers on the need for mobile security. “We realized that, even though the theory was pretty much logical, the move of the enterprise to handheld devices was not actually forthcoming,” Levchin said later, “kind of like the early Christians in the first century were all really hard at work waiting for the second coming. Still waiting… ‘Any minute now, there’ll be millions of people begging for security on their handheld devices.’ It just wasn’t happening.” The company would need to change course.
		- On February 26, 1999—the day after closing its investment round—Confinity sent Davison, Linnett, and its other investors an eighteen-page document outlining a strategy shift. Selling business-to-business mobile security was not working; instead, the company would pivot to become consumer-facing. Confinity would launch a “Mobile Wallet” for handheld devices, an attempt to obsolete physical wallets. Mobile Wallet would secure financial information and allow users to send currency and conduct e-commerce—all from a PalmPilot.
		- In theory, the expanding number of handheld devices would grow Mobile Wallet usage, and users would install the Mobile Wallet because their friends and family already had one. The business plan anticipated the obvious question: “How will the Confinity network ever come into being if its value to each particular customer depends on the prior existence of the whole network?” The team developed two approaches to addressing this tautology: top-down and bottom-up. From the top down, Confinity would find and target prime business and market candidates. The bottom-up approach would see users inviting members of their own networks. “Confinity,” its founders wrote, “will combine these two approaches, albeit with the major initial emphasis on the second, grassroots model
		- Then, Confinity believed, the market would be theirs for the taking—and keeping. It was only a matter of scaling, linking vendors and merchants, creating credit cards, and offering internet banking, et voilà: “As the Confinity network grows, the cost of transition to other authentication companies will become prohibitively high, creating an effective barrier to new entrants.” The company sought $4 million in funding to see this vision through and build out the team and the product, which was expected to launch six months later in August 1999.
		- But Thiel’s view was that trust among teams was hard to build, and that friends-turned-employees came preinstalled with trust. “It was this network hiring sort of effect where we had a great deal of trust that everybody was reasonably bright, and trying to work toward making this successful,” early employee David Wallace recalled. Trust produced speed. “We could be at a much faster cycle than a lot of companies where you have to take a month to sort of message things throughout the company before you could say what you were trying to say.
		- Janardhan had not been a friend-of-friend, nor a University of Illinois or Stanford graduate, and he joined the company later in its life cycle. But he, too, sensed the power in hiring for trust. “They hired really good people, gave them a lot of trust, and so people ran at their own pace, just made sure that they checkpointed to make sure we were in sync occasionally. And then we would just keep on running. So they got the best out of some very, very smart people
			- (If we trust our coworkers to do great work and output quality content then we will work faster together as a team.)
	- Chapter 5 - The Beamers
	  collapsed:: true
		- I**n Confinity’s early days, Levchin observed that the number of people in a room correlated positively to friction in basic communication. “If you’re alone,” he explained, “you just work really hard and hope it’s enough. Since it often isn’t, people form teams. But in a team, an n-squared communications problem emerges.**
			- In a five-person team, there are something like twenty-five pairwise relationships to manage and communications to maintain.”To minimize such chafe, Levchin wanted engineers who saw the world as he did. For example, when early on Levchin chose C++ as PayPal’s programming language—which even he referred to as a “kind of crappy language”—he expected the founding engineers not to complain. “Anyone that did want to argue about it,” Levchin said, “wouldn’t have fit in.
			- Arguing would have impeded progress.
			- (What process can we employ to help provide grease and lessen friction in a big organization? This can be relevant to how we communicate and share information, how the organization thinks, and how we do the work?)
		- Almost right away, Confinity’s Mobile Wallet pitch ran into the same market problem as the Fieldlink security software: people weren’t begging to swap actual wallets for virtual ones. Even as they coded furiously, the team wondered about the Mobile Wallet’s efficacy. That prompted a series of team discussions in the spring of 1999, reflecting on their creations and considering alternative use cases. #[[Q: Are we working on the right problems at work?]]
			- (Make sure the solution you're making is solving the problems that people want, not what you think they want or would want. Confirm that you are not creating value for yourself but for your clients. This applies to communication, relationships, and other aspects of business and management.)
			- Compelling as the concept seemed to the team, they struggled—once again—to sell it. In February 1999, Levchin attended the International Financial Cryptography Association conference. Hosted in Anguilla, a sliver of a Caribbean island, the annual gathering drew the leading players in academic cryptography and digital currencies. (To this day, Thiel, who attended the 2000 conference, harbors a theory that Satoshi Nakamoto—the mysterious founder of the cryptocurrency Bitcoin—was among the attendees
				- (Regarding beaming money. It seems the early PayPal founders were more attracted to making solutions to unclear and undefined problems.)
			- At some level, the team assumed demand would exist—if they built it, the beamers would come. It was an easy mistake to make, given their surroundings. Handheld devices like the PalmPilot and its technological cousin, feature phones, were all the rage in Silicon Valley. “I was very bullish on [the PalmPilot] platform,” Scott Banister admitted. “Many, many people out here were.” By 1999, more than five million people owned Palm devices, and 3Com, Palm’s parent company, was even exploring a Palm spin-off IPO. #[[Q - How do we create value at work?]]
				- (To help mitigate surprises at the later stages of a development or solution cycle, make sure to identify and validate your assumptions. Ensure you're solving problems that your clients have.)
			- At one of many late-night product debates that summer, Reid Hoffman raised another critical stumbling block: What if one of these hypothetical PayPal users forgot their PalmPilot and needed to execute a transaction? Levchin proposed a workaround, suggesting the PayPal.com website be set up to send money via a user’s email address. Users had to use the website anyway to download the PayPal software for syncing their handheld devices to their computers. **The site could have an email system as a backup to the PalmPilot money-beaming option. When emailing money was first suggested, few recognized it as a eureka moment.** Quite the opposite: Levchin intended it to be a throwaway demo—buried in a corner of the main site for the unlucky souls who forgot their PalmPilots. To him, emailing money was a far cry from PayPal’s primary use case. This feature, if it could even be called that, was a concession to Hoffman’s critique, not a core product #[[q - How to increase insights]]
				- Don't be too attached to a specific solution. This attachment can cause you to overlook an even better option to explore that may even solve the problem better. Don't let suck cost bias influence you to bad decision making
				- Creating multiple solutions to the same problem can help you come up with better solutions.
		- Musk believed that with the alchemy of the internet and his own boundless initiative, X.com could deliver these services cheaper, faster, and better than existing players could. “X.com had very high aspirations,” observed an early employee, Chris Chen. “I think the online bank was just a core component of the product—but we wanted to be a financial supersite. So we wanted to offer insurance products. We wanted to offer investments.” These weren’t wholly new ideas, of course, and industry analysts argued that incumbents would be able to sink X.com by simply building copycat products. **But Musk had seen the big banks’ unwillingness to innovate from within—he wasn’t losing sleep over possible competition from the JP Morgans and Goldman Sachs of the world** #[[Q - How do we create value at work?]]
			- Musk saw inefficiencies in a certain domain and was wiling to invest resources and time trying to innovate in that space. Even though Musk only a ideas and no real solid options fully explored, the willingness to explore and experiment led to the eventual success of PayPal. (Keep in mind though of only the success bias, were many have tried but failed...though the more opportunities we take to experiment the more likely one of those attempts succeed.)
		- Musk spared no expense if something helped get X.com to market quickly. While desks, for example, wouldn’t speed up the release of a website, a better server might
			- Clearly prioritize your environment to the activities, tools, and ideas that closely achieves your goal. Don't get caught doing too many things that doesn't help you a better person. Don't do tasks with no clearly defined objectives or well thought out purpose.
		- Ideas that seemed promising at launch became problematic live. Confinity users could retrieve money by check, for instance. But as customers mushroomed, so did demands for mailed payments—a cumbersome process. The team had to download the day’s transactions by way of a dial-up modem, and the company’s CFO, David Jaques, loaded the office’s sole printer with blank checks, signed them by hand, and stuffed envelopes by the hundreds alongside his teammates. #[[q: how can we detect errors in our knowledge?]]
			- When coming up with solutions and options to problems, consider the scale of that solution. Will the solution work for only a few number of people or will it still work with users in the thousands. #[[Scalability]]
		- Indeed, Musk was frustrated that X.com’s other products didn’t generate the same excitement. “We would show people the hard part—the agglomeration of financial services—and nobody was interested. Then we’d show people the email payments—which was the easy part—and everybody was interested,” Musk explained in a 2012 commencement speech at CalTech. “So I think it’s important to take feedback from your environment. You want to be as closed-loop as possible."
			- Be open and actively seek feedback on your ideas so you can get different perspectives to refine or even pivot and change from one favored option to a lower prioritized option that excites your users, but not you. Seek feedback so that whatever you're building is valuable and exciting to your users.
		- He soon discovered that product management was as much about avoiding distractions as producing breakthroughs. “As I took over product in the company,” Sacks remembered, “I kind of became, like, ‘Dr. No.’ Because I’d always have to say no to everyone’s stupid ideas… it was really important that we not squander our precious engineering bandwidth on ideas that didn’t make sense for the long-term strategy of the company.” #[[Q - How do we create value at work?]]
			- Don't always say yes to projects. Learn how to say no to tasks given to you.
		- Confinity took strategic steps to leverage and grow its eBay network. The team scraped eBay webpages and built tools specifically designed for auction buyers and sellers. Confinity’s feature set now included a logo resizing tool, as well as a feature that auto-completed the eBay payment page (with PayPal preselected as the payment option). A feature dubbed “auto-link” made PayPal the default payment option for any eBay seller who had transacted with PayPal even once. “That increased the delta by an insane amount,” Yu Pan said, referring to PayPal’s adoption on eBay #[[q - how can we make better decisions]]
			- (Use data and scrape data to help make informed decision making)
			- Pan was assigned to work exclusively on eBay tools—becoming one of a growing roster of Confinity’s eBay anthropologists. Following Pan’s lead, the team drove into eBay’s message boards and other auction forums and studied eBay’s “PowerSeller” community. David Sacks also told the members of the product team to purchase items on the eBay website. Confinity’s newly minted eBay shoppers met to dissect every single step of the buying—and, specifically, the paying—experience. “We had to become the users,” recalled Denise Aptekar, who purchased a landline phone, which, unfortunately, came “caked in cigarette smoke
				- (Work closely with your users to help you understand and prioritize what functionality you should be building or investing your resources in.)
		- To Harris, the merger wasn’t just defensive—it was a strategic piece of offense. He cited Metcalfe’s Law. Devised in the 1980s by Robert Metcalfe, the inventor of Ethernet, the basic idea was simple: The value of a network grows by the square of the size of the network. If a computer network contains five machines, the total network has a value of 25—5 squared; if it has a thousand machines, the network has a value of 1,000,000—1,000 squared. Per Metcalfe, the bigger network has 200 times more machines—but its value is 40,000 times bigger. True for telephones, faxes, and the world wide web, Metcalfe’s law also applied to payments. “Volume wins,” Harris explained. “Nobody wants to be on a payment system where there’s no one to pay. And no one wants to be a recipient on a payment system where there’s no one paying. And so it’s all about getting size.” Despite Musk’s protestations, Harris felt merging was the only answer—even if it took an ultimatum to get it done
		- Musk and other senior leaders tolerated failures as a side effect of iteration. “I remember once Elon saying one thing which was like, ‘If you can’t tell me the four ways you fucked something up… before you got it right, you probably weren’t the person who worked on it,’ ” Giacomo DiGrigoli recalled. Musk echoed this sentiment. “If there were two paths where we had to choose one thing or the other, and one wasn’t obviously better than the other,” he explained in a 2003 public talk at Stanford, “then rather than spend a lot of time trying to figure out which one was slightly better, we would just pick one and do it. And sometimes we’d be wrong.… But oftentimes it’s better to just pick a path and do it rather than just vacillate endlessly on the choice
			- Don't be afraid to make mistakes as it can be the only way to learn or the fastest way to find out if a hypothesis is correct. Sometimes it's just not possible to find out which option is better than another than trying one out and seeing what happens.
		- Harris’s style—deliberative and consensus oriented—might have been a plus elsewhere but hurt his reputation at X.com. “According to insiders,” Fortune magazine reported in late 2000, “[Harris] created lots of structure and held endless meetings, virtually none of which yielded any resolutions. Decision making slowed to a crawl.” His critics blamed him for the post-merger listlessness, and some felt that Harris had lost faith in the company altogether #[[Q - How to run a meeting]]
			- **Don't be afraid to question if meetings can be done through e-mails instead of wasting everyone's time and attention with fruitless meetings. Start assessing the quality of meetings. Ask the invitees if a meeting was needed or if they needed to be there.**
		- [W]hen schedule slippage is recognized,” Brooks wrote, “the natural (and traditional) response is to add manpower. Like dousing a fire with gasoline, this makes matters worse, much worse. More fire requires more gasoline, and thus begins a regenerative cycle which ends in disaster.” More programmers assigned to a given project, Brooks explained, multiplied the number of communication channels. This time spent talking—whether keeping team members up to speed or building interpersonal relationships—was time not spent coding. Two heads, in other words, weren’t necessarily better than one
			- Keep communication channels to a minimum. Too many people putting out a fire is going to make the problem even worse.
		- **Sacks became a zealot for efficiency within Confinity—and simplicity without.** When he saw, for instance, that an early iteration of the PayPal sign-up process forced new users through seven web pages and two PalmPilot syncs, he was horrified. On the office whiteboard, he outlined a new, single-page sign-up form, and after getting approval from Thiel and Levchin, Sacks “marched all the engineers in and said ‘build this.’ ” #[[q: What are the correct forms for problem solving?]]
			- Sacks’s pursuit of simplicity emerged as a rallying cry for the product team. “You would count the number of fields and the number of characters and, visually, the mind share of only doing what you must do on that page,” Denise Aptekar recalled. “That’s where a lot of my fundamental product instincts were formed.
			- Sacks’s uncompromising stance often put him at odds with Confinity’s engineering team. **He pushed back forcefully against what he saw as extraneous technological creations with no practical application for users. It wasn’t enough to build cutting-edge technology, which was the engineering team’s focus; Sacks wanted to ensure that users could derive value from it.** This tension pushed the team in productive directions. The decision to focus on emailing money rather than beaming it, for example, proved prescient. “We always had a killer app,” Sacks quipped to the Wall Street Journal years later. “It was just buried on our site
		- While both X.com and Confinity blasted off thanks to email, another tactic helped them reach escape velocity: X.com and Confinity both paid new users cash bonuses to sign up. In time, this bonus effort was hailed as one of the all-time great “viral marketing” programs, but starting out, there was something vaguely disreputable about it. If a firm had to pay users, did that imply an inability to earn them organically? Weren’t users supposed to pay a business for services, not the other way around
		- This corner of the internet—an auction website selling Beanie Babies and broken laser pointers—had become unexpectedly fertile soil for the companies’ products. “On the product side, the eBay users defined our existence,” noted Skye Lee, “It wasn’t us saying, ‘Oh my God, eBay! That’s the genius idea!’ ” Technology thinkers frequently urged founders to build companies that solved problems in their own lives, but X.com’s and Confinity’s eBay-driven success offered a powerful counterpoint:
		- Confinity, he realized, needed more natural diplomats, and Hoffman, he knew, actually enjoyed dealing with fellow members of the species. Vivien Go interviewed with Hoffman in the winter of 1999—after finishing a summer internship at eBay. She was surprised when Hoffman didn’t mine her for every scrap of intel; instead, he wanted to know who Go was and why she wanted to be at Confinity. “[Hoffman] sees people in a very three-dimensional way,” she observed. “Some people put a formula or label to someone; Reid isn’t like this. Reid is really very emotionally intelligent
			- Emotionally intelligent people can be successful in a world dominated by alpha-dominant business minded people. And if those people can't see the value you have as a people person then they aren't very smart after all.
		- Thiel abhorred bureaucracies, and now that Confinity was growing, he risked being ensnared by the very things he had abandoned upon leaving law firm life—management, paperwork, meetings. “Peter is even less tolerant of bullshit than I am,” the famously administrivia-averse Musk remarked. “My bullshit tolerance is low, but Peter is like zero.”
			- Don't be afraid to keep your bar high even when those around you look unkindly of your thoughts and perspective.
		- By that December, Confinity was processing a growing number of eBay transactions. “We had an early lead,” Confinity cofounder Ken Howery remembered. By launching first and reaping the rewards, Confinity proved Musk’s intuition correct: in the era’s overheated start-up environment, time to market was critical. And even more so for payments firms. “Network effects trump everything else,” Howery explained, alluding to the economics principle developed to explain the growth of the telephone in the early 1900s. Each new telephone added to the network increased the value of every other telephone on it and grew the incentives for non–telephone owners to buy one. By the end of the twentieth century, Confinity enjoyed the same fruits of scale the American Bell Telephone Company had enjoyed at the century’s dawn. Every eBay auction seller accepting PayPal enticed more buyers to sign up, and each new buyer paying with PayPal drove sellers to adopt it.
		- In that same no-nonsense spirit, **Sacks and Musk outlawed big meetings**, which Sacks called “a deliberate tactic to break with this banking culture and to re-institute the original, start-up-y culture at PayPal.” One employee remembered Sacks glaring pointedly through a conference room window where too many people had congregated, his message unmistakable #[[Q - How to run a meeting]]
		- Even before the merger in late 1999, David Sacks had put pen to paper on an early vision for a button product. Over time, that product spec incorporated countless ideas from team members and captured many of the concepts that propelled PayPal to internet ubiquity. In many ways, the document represents the ur-text of modern PayPal.In deference to Musk’s passion for the “X-” branding, the team initially called the button product X-Click, though later renamed it Web Accept. Its closest precursor was a PayPal feature called Money Request, which allowed users to send a personal request for money by email. That email contained a link to a PayPal page. X-Click would take this function and make it omnipresent, “by allowing PayPal users to paste the Money Request link on their own websites, personal home pages, auction listings, or other URLs… The result is a single-click payment system for the entire web.” The product spec made a business case for X-Click, too. It would fuel PayPal’s virality, bringing its products to websites everywhere, and dial up PayPal’s network effects. Other “tightly integrated payment competitors like eBay/Billpoint, Yahoo/dotBank, and Amazon 1-Click/zShops” would remain so focused on home turf payments that they’d miss PayPal’s spread across the web
			- Make or add features to your product that reduces friction for users. Similarly we can grease our work processes by reducing mental load,  work steps, or other wasteful processes
		- Botha began working nights and afternoons after class, borrowing a cubicle next to Musk. His inaugural assignment was to rebuild X.com’s financial model from scratch. **While X.com had raised millions, Botha felt its financial modeling was “super simplistic.” He began building a more robust one using a wider set of metrics. What portion of existing accounts are active? How much exactly does the company pay in credit card fees? What happens if the fraud rate goes up, or down? What about eliminating bonuses? Botha’s spreadsheet enabled the team to toggle assumptions and forecast outcomes—providing a holistic, predictive picture of the business’s health.Over time, Botha’s spreadsheet took on oracular significance—one had to consult “the model” before big decisions.** On the strength of this work, Botha was invited to join the company full-time after graduating and attend a board meeting in June 2000—which proved memorable. “[Mike] Moritz arrived at the June board meeting and said, ‘Look, you guys have seven months of runway left,’ ” Botha recalled. “ ‘You’re not going to raise money again. The market is gone!’ ” Moritz’s comment was bracing but clarifying. “It was really helpful because he just drummed into us that we should not assume we could raise any more money,” Botha said. #[[q - how can we make better decisions]]
			- (To break down a problem, identify the variables and play around with their values. Ask questions about them. Ask questions what affects the problem space in a holistic way.)
			- Botha’s dive into the weeds of X.com’s finances led him to an obsession with the business’s losses. To build an accurate model, he had to study individual loss types, understand their origins—whether fees, chargebacks, or fraud—and tally them line by line. His number-crunching revealed a troubling discrepancy: X.com’s current losses were lower than his model’s future projections. Botha went on alert, “digging, digging to understand what’s the nature of this thing
			- Eventually he found it: X.com hadn’t accounted for the time delay in disputed and fraudulent credit card transactions. If a customer won a credit card dispute, the card company issued them a chargeback. But the chargeback process didn’t begin until the bill was sent, the customer complained, and the issue was investigated—a process that could take a month or more, and well after X.com had paid the merchant. “The chargebacks we were seeing in May were related to transactions from February or March,” Botha remembered.X.com’s forecasting had failed to take this delay into account—leaving it unprepared for an approaching tidal wave. “It was around June that I started to realize we have a massive, looming problem,” Botha recalled
		- Musk was steadfast—the name would have to change. His reaction to the focus group research bred resentment. “PayPal” partisans felt that Musk was letting his personal opinion—rather than user preference—drive the decision
			- Smart people can be wrong, especially in fields they are not informed in or if they let their emotions drive their thinking instead of using the data help them think through the issue.
		- The September 2000 upsell yielded a powerful data point: “We found that the pricing was completely inelastic,” explained Thiel. “As we increased prices, none of our customers could leave. People said, ‘We refuse to pay,’ and they left, and there is no other place they could get paid online so they came back.” For the team, this episode offered a vital lesson in user behavior and switching costs. They realized that once embedded in users’ lives, dislodging a product or service took meaningful effort. “Human beings are creatures of momentum,” observed Amy Rowe Klement, “and finding ways to change the default (behaviors, thinking, narrative, etc.) can result in massive change
			- The upsell campaign relied on forthrightness, rather than any enforcement mechanisms. “We ask sellers who currently have a Personal Account to play by the rules and upgrade to either a Premier or Business Account,” the team wrote. “We count on your honesty when we give you the choice of an account type
		- The work at PayPal was unstructured, but it was actually really high quality. It was done by people who actually cared about achieving a truly secure system, rather than a team of people who cared about adhering to the protocol standard for securing credit cards safely
		- Over time, Chestnut came to respect the PayPal team’s aggressive growth efforts. “I’d say their competitors were probably going home at six or seven o’clock at night,” he joked. “PayPal was just wheeling in dinner at that point… They were highly entrepreneurial, very aggressive. You’ve got to admire that.” eBay’s CEO, Meg Whitman, mirrored Chestnut’s reflections. “PayPal was a company of extremely aggressive people with a real bias for action,” she wrote in her business memoir, The Power of Many
		- Giacomo DiGrigoli never forgot David Sacks’s stark response. “David took one look at it and was like, ‘No. It needs to be this simple. Like, a human being is trying to buy something on eBay. And they need to send that person eighty euros. You should have a drop down that says eighty and the number of the currency. And then on the permission screen, you can put all this other bullshit that needs to be here… Make it this simple, please.