---
title: Books: The Lean Startup
---

- **tags:** #[[Project Management]] #Leadership
- **author:** [[Eric Ries]]
- **status:**
- **link:**
- #[[Literature Notes]]
- #[[Reference Notes]]
	- Project Management and Lean Management
		- Project Management
			- Yet the story of perseverance, creative genius, and hard work persists. Why is it so popular? I think there is something deeply appealing about this modern-day rags-to-riches story. It makes success seem inevitable if you just have the right stuff. It means that the mundane details, the boring stuff, the small individual choices don’t matter. If we build it, they will come. When we fail, as so many of us do, we have a ready-made excuse: we didn’t have the right stuff. We weren’t visionary enough or weren’t in the right place at the right time. After more than ten years as an entrepreneur, I came to reject that line of thinking. **I have learned from both my own successes and failures and those of many others that it’s the boring stuff that matters the most. Startup success is not a consequence of good genes or being in the right place at the right time. Startup success can be engineered by following the right process, which means it can be learned, which means it can be taught.**
			- **Despite the volumes written on business strategy, the key attributes of business leaders, and ways to identify the next big thing, innovators still struggle to bring their ideas to life.** This was the frustration that led us to try a radical new approach at IMVU, one characterized by an extremely fast cycle time, a focus on what customers want (without asking them), and a scientific approach to making decisions.
				- **The first problem is the allure of a good plan, a solid strategy, and thorough market research. In earlier eras, these things were indicators of likely success.** The overwhelming temptation is to apply them to startups too, but this doesn’t work, because startups operate with too much uncertainty. Startups do not yet know who their customer is or what their product should be. As the world becomes more uncertain, it gets harder and harder to predict the future. The old management methods are not up to the task. **Planning and forecasting are only accurate when based on a long, stable operating history and a relatively static environment.** Startups have neither.
					- [Note]No amount of planning can mitigate an environment of high uncertainty
			- The tremendous success of general management over the last century has provided unprecedented material abundance, but those management principles are ill suited to handle the chaos and uncertainty that startups must face.
		- Lean Management
			- ^^Lean thinking^^ is radically altering the way supply chains and production systems are run. **Among its tenets are drawing on the knowledge and creativity of individual workers, the shrinking of batch sizes, just-in-time production and inventory control, and an acceleration of cycle times. It taught the world the difference between value-creating activities and waste and showed how to build quality into products from the inside out.**
			- A comprehensive theory of entrepreneurship should address all the functions of an early-stage venture: vision and concept, product development, marketing and sales, scaling up, partnerships and distribution, and structure and organizational design. It has to provide a method for measuring progress in the context of extreme uncertainty. It can give entrepreneurs clear guidance on how to make the many trade-off decisions they face: whether and when to invest in process; formulating, planning, and creating infrastructure; when to go it alone and when to partner; when to respond to feedback and when to stick with vision; and how and when to invest in scaling the business. Most of all, it must allow entrepreneurs to make testable predictions.
			- The Lean Startup is a new way of looking at the development of innovative new products that emphasizes fast iteration and customer insight, a huge vision, and great ambition, all at the same time.
			- Instead of making complex plans that are based on a lot of assumptions, you can make constant adjustments with a steering wheel called the [[Build-Measure-Learn feedback loop]]. Through this process of steering, we can learn when and if it’s time to make a sharp turn called a pivot or whether we should persevere along our current path. Once we have an engine that’s revved up, the Lean Startup offers methods to scale and grow the business with maximum acceleration.
			- a failure to deliver results is due to either a failure to plan adequately or a failure to execute properly. Both are significant lapses, yet new product development in our modern economy routinely requires exactly this kind of failure on the way to greatness. In the Lean Startup movement, we have come to realize that these internal innovators are actually entrepreneurs, too, and that entrepreneurial management can help them succeed; this is the subject of the next chapter.
				- 2 DEFINE WHO, EXACTLY, IS AN ENTREPRENEUR? As I travel the world talking about the Lean Startup, I’m consistently surprised that I meet people in the audience who seem out of place. In addition to the more traditional startup entrepreneurs I meet, these people are general managers, mostly working in very large companies, who are tasked with creating new ventures or product innovations. They are adept at organizational politics: they know how to form autonomous divisions with separate profit and loss statements (P&Ls) and can shield controversial teams from corporate meddling. The biggest surprise is that they are visionaries. Like
			- The reason is that in general management, a failure to deliver results is due to either a failure to plan adequately or a failure to execute properly. Both are significant lapses, yet new product development in our modern economy routinely requires exactly this kind of failure on the way to greatness.
	- Innovation (value creation), Learning and Leadership
		- Innovation
			- **Most tools from general management are not designed to flourish in the harsh soil of extreme uncertainty in which startups thrive.**
			- Innovation is a bottoms-up, decentralized, and unpredictable thing, but that doesn’t mean it cannot be managed. It can, but to do so requires a new management discipline, one that needs to be mastered not just by practicing entrepreneurs seeking to build the next big thing but also by the people who support them, nurture them, and hold them accountable. In other words, cultivating entrepreneurship is the responsibility of senior management. Today, a cutting-edge company such as Intuit can point to success stories like SnapTax because it has recognized the need for a new management paradigm. This is a realization that was years in the making.
			- **Leadership requires creating conditions that enable employees to do the kinds of experimentation that entrepreneurship requires.**
			- **As an engineer and later as a manager, I was accustomed to measuring progress by making sure our work proceeded according to plan, was high quality, and cost about what we had projected. **After many years as an entrepreneur, I started to worry about measuring progress in this way. What if we found ourselves building something that nobody wanted? In that case what did it matter if we did it on time and on budget?
			- **Yet if the fundamental goal of entrepreneurship is to engage in organization building under conditions of extreme uncertainty, its most vital function is learning. We must learn the truth about which elements of our strategy are working to realize our vision and which are just crazy. We must learn what customers really want, not what they say they want or what we think they should want. We must discover whether we are on a path that will lead to growing a sustainable business.**
			- Positive changes in metrics became the quantitative validation that our learning was real. This was critically important because we could show our stakeholders—employees, investors, and ourselves—that we were making genuine progress, not deluding ourselves. **It is also the right way to think about productivity in a startup: not in terms of how much stuff we are building but in terms of how much validated learning we’re getting for our efforts.**
			- Thus, we can mitigate the waste that happens because of the audacity of zero with validated learning. What we needed to demonstrate was that our product development efforts were leading us toward massive success without giving in to the temptation to fall back on vanity metrics and “success theater”—the work we do to make ourselves look successful.
		- Experiments
			- ^^This is one of the most important lessons of the scientific method: if you cannot fail, you cannot learn.^^
			- A true experiment follows the scientific method. It begins with a clear hypothesis that makes predictions about what is supposed to happen. It then tests those predictions empirically. Just as scientific experimentation is informed by theory, startup experimentation is guided by the startup’s vision. The goal of every startup experiment is to discover how to build a sustainable business around that vision.
			- Break It Down The first step would be to break down the grand vision into its component parts. The two most important assumptions entrepreneurs make are what I call the value hypothesis and the growth hypothesis.
				- The [[value hypothesis]] tests whether a product or service really delivers value to customers once they are using it.
					- What’s a good indicator that employees find donating their time valuable? We could survey them to get their opinion, but that would not be very accurate because most people have a hard time assessing their feelings objectively.
				- For the [[growth hypothesis]], which tests how new customers will discover a product or service, we can do a similar analysis.
					- Once the program is up and running, how will it spread among the employees, from initial early adopters to mass adoption throughout the company? A likely way this program could expand is through viral growth. If that is true, the most important thing to measure is behavior: would the early participants actively spread the word to other employees?
			- **At its heart, a startup is a catalyst that transforms ideas into products. As customers interact with those products, they generate feedback and data. The feedback is both qualitative (such as what they like and don’t like) and quantitative (such as how many people use it and find it valuable). **
				- As we saw in Part One, the products a startup builds are really experiments; the learning about how to build a sustainable business is the outcome of those experiments.
				- For startups, that information is much more important than dollars, awards, or mentions in the press, because it can influence and reshape the next set of ideas. We can visualize this three-step process with this simple diagram: This Build-Measure-Learn feedback loop is at the core of the Lean Startup model.
			- **The point is not to find the average customer, but to find early adopters: the customers who feel the need for the product most acutely.** Those customers tend to be more forgiving of mistakes and are especially eager to give feedback.
			- Additional experiments can expand on this early feedback and learning.
			- Do consumers recognize that they have the problem you are trying to solve? 2. If there was a solution, would they buy it? 3. Would they buy it from us? 4. Can we build a solution for that problem?”
			- **The common tendency of product development is to skip straight to the fourth question and build a solution before confirming that customers have the problem.**
			- In a break with the past, Cook led the group through a process of identifying risks and assumptions before building anything and then testing those assumptions experimentally.
		- Learning
			- Votizen accelerated its MVP process because it was learning critical things about its customers, market, and strategy.
			- The startup has to find ways to achieve the same amount of validated learning at lower cost or in a shorter time.
			- Ask most entrepreneurs who have decided to pivot and they will tell you that they wish they had made the decision sooner. I believe there are three reasons why this happens.
				- [Note]Learn faster and more quickly
		- Assumptions and Analogs
			- Because the assumptions haven’t been proved to be true (they are assumptions, after all) and in fact are often erroneous, the goal of a startup’s early efforts should be to test them as quickly as possible.
			- What traditional business strategy excels at is helping managers identify clearly what assumptions are being made in a particular business. The first challenge for an entrepreneur is to build an organization that can test these assumptions systematically. The second challenge, as in all entrepreneurial situations, is to perform that rigorous testing without losing sight of the company’s overall vision.
				- He explains the analog-antilog concept by using the iPod as an example. “If you were looking for analogs, you would have to look at the Walkman,” he says. “It solved a critical question that Steve Jobs never had to ask himself: Will people listen to music in a public place using earphones?
					- There is nothing intrinsically wrong with basing strategy on comparisons to other companies and industries. In fact, that approach can help you discover assumptions that are not really leaps of faith.
					- Jobs then had to face the fact that although people were willing to download music, they were not willing to pay for it. “Napster was an antilog.
					- “Out of these analogs and antilogs come a series of unique, unanswered questions. Those are leaps of faith that I, as an entrepreneur, am taking if I go through with this business venture. They are going to make or break my business. In the iPod business, one of those leaps of faith was that people would pay for music.” Of course that leap of faith turned out to be correct.
			- You cannot be sure you really understand any part of any business problem unless you go and see for yourself firsthand. It is unacceptable to take anything for granted or to rely on the reports of others.
				- The importance of basing strategic decisions on firsthand understanding of customers is one of the core principles that underlies the Toyota Production System.
		- Process Improvements
			- Engineers, designers, and marketers are all skilled at optimization.
				- For example, direct marketers are experienced at split testing value propositions by sending a different offer to two similar groups of customers so that they can measure differences in the response rates of the two groups.
				- Engineers, of course, are skilled at improving a product’s performance, just as designers are talented at making products easier to use.
				- All these activities in a well-run traditional organization offer incremental benefit for incremental effort. As long as we are executing the plan well, hard work yields results. However, these tools for product improvement do not work the same way for startups.
				- **If you are building the wrong thing, optimizing the product or its marketing will not yield significant results. **
					- A startup has to measure progress against a high bar: evidence that a sustainable business can be built around its products or services. That’s a standard that can be assessed only if a startup has made clear, tangible predictions ahead of time.
				- [[Split-Test Experiment]]
					- A split-test experiment is one in which different versions of a product are offered to customers at the same time. By observing the changes in behavior between the two groups, one can make inferences about the impact of the different variations.
					- Split testing also helps teams refine their understanding of what customers want and don’t want.
				- Reporting
					- For a report to be considered actionable, it must demonstrate clear cause and effect. Otherwise, it is a vanity metric.
						- When cause and effect is clearly understood, people are better able to learn from their actions.
					- Accessible: All too many reports are not understood by the employees and managers who are supposed to use them to guide their decision making.
					- First, make the reports as simple as possible so that everyone understands them. Remember the saying “Metrics are people, too.” The easiest way to make reports comprehensible is to use tangible, concrete units.
					- This is why cohort-based reports are the gold standard of learning metrics: they turn complex actions into people-based reports. Each cohort analysis says: among the people who used our product in this period, here’s how many of them exhibited each of the behaviors we care about.
						- In the IMVU example, we saw four behaviors: downloading the product, logging into the product from one’s computer, engaging in a chat with other customers, and upgrading to the paid version of the product.
						- In other words, the report deals with people and their actions, which are far more useful than piles of data points.
		- Value Creation
			- ^^Lean thinking defines value as providing benefit to the customer; anything else is waste.^^ **In a manufacturing business, customers don’t care how the product is assembled, only that it works correctly. But in a startup, who the customer is and what the customer might find valuable are unknown, part of the very uncertainty that is an essential part of the definition of a startup.**
				- The real progress we had made at IMVU was what we had learned over those first months about what creates value for customers. Anything we had done during those months that did not contribute to our learning was a form of waste. Would it have been possible to learn the same things
			- The real progress we had made at IMVU was what we had learned over those first months about what creates value for customers. Anything we had done during those months that did not contribute to our learning was a form of waste. Would it have been possible to learn the same things with less effort? Clearly, the answer is yes.
			- it’s easy to kid yourself about what you think customers want. It’s also easy to learn things that are completely irrelevant.
			- the proof did not come until we put those theories into practice and built subsequent versions of the product that showed superior results with actual customers.
				- [Note]Our learning isn't useful until we put the knowledge into our processes, and they yield superior results compared to the past
			- What the Customers Want
				- **We adopted the view that our job was to find a synthesis between our vision and what customers would accept; it wasn’t to capitulate to what customers thought they wanted or to tell customers what they ought to want.**
				- **As we came to understand our customers better, we were able to improve our products.**
				- No amount of design can anticipate the many complexities of bringing a product to life in the real world.
				- Unfortunately, because customers don’t really know what they want, it’s easy for these entrepreneurs to delude themselves that they are on the right path.
					- They’d rather start building immediately, often after just a few cursory customer conversations. Unfortunately, because customers don’t really know what they want, it’s easy for these entrepreneurs to delude themselves that they are on the right path.
						- These discussions of quality presuppose that the company already knows what attributes of the product the customer will perceive as worthwhile. In a startup, this is a risky assumption to make. Often we are not even sure who the customer is. Thus, for startups, I believe in the following quality principle: If we do not know who the customer is, we do not know what quality is.
				- Even a “low-quality” MVP can act in service of building a great high-quality product. Yes, MVPs sometimes are perceived as low-quality by customers. If so, we should use this as an opportunity to learn what attributes customers care about. This is infinitely better than mere speculation or whiteboard strategizing, because it provides a solid empirical foundation on which to build future products.
					- Customers don’t care how much time something takes to build. They care only if it serves their needs.
					- MVPs require the courage to put one’s assumptions to the test. If customers react the way we expect, we can take that as confirmation that our assumptions are correct.
					- If we release a poorly designed product and customers (even early adopters) cannot figure out how to use it, that will confirm our need to invest in superior design. But we must always ask: what if they don’t care about design in the same way we do?
						- The solution to this dilemma is a commitment to iteration. You have to commit to a locked-in agreement—ahead of time—that no matter what comes of testing the MVP, you will not give up hope. Successful entrepreneurs do not give up at the first sign of trouble, nor do they persevere the plane right into the ground. Instead, they possess a unique combination of perseverance and flexibility.
						- We all need a disciplined, systematic approach to figuring out if we’re making progress and discovering if we’re actually achieving validated learning.
				-
			- ^^“Success is not delivering a feature; success is learning how to solve the customer’s problem.”^^
	- How Vision Leads to Steering
		- As in lean manufacturing, learning where and when to invest energy results in saving time and money.
		- Measuring the value of the MVP
			- Value Hypothesis and growth hypothesis
				- What differentiates the success stories from the failures is that the successful entrepreneurs had the foresight, the ability, and the tools to discover which parts of their plans were working brilliantly and which were misguided, and adapt their strategies accordingly.
				- The two most important assumptions are the [[value hypothesis]] and the [[growth hypothesis]]. These give rise to tuning variables that control a startup’s engine of growth. Each iteration of a startup is an attempt to rev this engine to see if it will turn. Once it is running, the process repeats, shifting into higher and higher gears.
				- Once clear on these leap-of-faith assumptions, the first step is to enter the Build phase as quickly as possible with a minimum viable product (MVP).
					- The MVP is that version of the product that enables a full turn of the Build-Measure-Learn loop with a minimum amount of effort and the least amount of development time. The minimum viable product lacks many features that may prove essential later on.
				- Value and Growth As we saw in the Facebook story, two leaps of faith stand above all others: the value creation hypothesis and the growth hypothesis. The first step in understanding a new product or service is to figure out if it is fundamentally value-creating or value-destroying.
				- However, in some ways, creating a [[MVP]] requires extra work: ^^we must be able to measure its impact^^. For example, it is inadequate to build a prototype that is evaluated solely for internal quality by engineers and designers. We also need to get it in front of potential customers to gauge their reactions. We may even need to try selling them the prototype, as we’ll soon see.
			- Innovation Accounting
				- When we enter the Measure phase, the biggest challenge will be determining whether the product development efforts are leading to real progress. Remember, if we’re building something that nobody wants, it doesn’t much matter if we’re doing it on time and on budget.
				- The method I recommend is called [[innovation accounting]], a quantitative approach that allows us to see whether our engine-tuning efforts are bearing fruit. It also allows us to create learning milestones, which are an alternative to traditional business and product milestones.
					- A startup’s job is to (1) rigorously measure where it is right now, confronting the hard truths that assessment reveals, and then (2) devise experiments to learn how to move the real numbers closer to the ideal reflected in the business plan.
					- Unfortunately, standard accounting is not helpful in evaluating entrepreneurs. Startups are too unpredictable for forecasts and milestones to be accurate.
					- Most milestones are built the same way: hit a certain product milestone, maybe talk to a few customers, and see if the numbers go up. Unfortunately, this is not a good indicator of whether a startup is making progress. How do we know that the changes we’ve made are related to the results we’re seeing? More important, how do we know that we are drawing the right lessons from those changes?
					- Steps for Innovation Accounting - MVP (Minimum Viable Product)
						- Innovation accounting works in three steps: first, use a minimum viable product to establish real data on where the company is right now. Without a clear-eyed picture of your current status—no matter how far from the goal you may be—you cannot begin to track your progress.
						- Second, startups must attempt to tune the engine from the baseline toward the ideal. This may take many attempts. After the startup has made all the micro changes and product optimizations it can to move its baseline toward the ideal, the company reaches a decision point.
						- That is the third step: pivot or persevere.
						- If the company is making good progress toward the ideal, that means it’s learning appropriately and using that learning effectively, in which case it makes sense to continue. If not, the management team eventually must conclude that its current product strategy is flawed and needs a serious change. When a company pivots, it starts the process all over again, reestablishing a new baseline and then tuning the engine from there. The sign of a successful pivot is that these engine-tuning activities are more productive after the pivot than before.
						- These MVPs provide the first example of a learning milestone. An MVP allows a startup to fill in real baseline data in its growth model—conversion rates, sign-up and trial rates, customer lifetime value, and so on—and this is valuable as the foundation for learning about customers and their reactions to a product even if that foundation begins with extremely bad news.
					- [[Learning Milestones]] are useful for entrepreneurs as a way of assessing their progress accurately and objectively; they are also invaluable to managers and investors who must hold entrepreneurs accountable.
						- However, not all metrics are created equal, and in Chapter 7 I’ll clarify the danger of vanity metrics in contrast to the nuts-and-bolts usefulness of actionable metrics, which help to analyze customer behavior in ways that support innovation accounting.
						- Finally, and most important, there’s the pivot. Upon completing the Build-Measure-Learn loop, we confront the most difficult question any entrepreneur faces: whether to pivot the original strategy or persevere. If we’ve discovered that one of our hypotheses is false, it is time to make a major change to a new strategic hypothesis.
						- **The Lean Startup method builds capital-efficient companies because it allows startups to recognize that it’s time to pivot sooner, creating less waste of time and money. **
							- Although we write the feedback loop as Build-Measure-Learn because the activities happen in that order, our planning really works in the reverse order: we figure out what we need to learn, use innovation accounting to figure out what we need to measure to know if we are gaining validated learning, and then figure out what product we need to build to run that experiment and get that measurement. All of the techniques in Part Two are designed to minimize the total time through the Build-Measure-Learn feedback loop.
								- LEAP In 2004, three college sophomores arrived in Silicon Valley with their fledgling college social network. It was live on a handful of college campuses. It was not the market-leading social network or even the first college social network; other companies had launched sooner and with more features. With 150,000 registered users, it made very little revenue, yet that summer they raised their first $500,000 in venture capital. Less than a year later, they raised an additional $12.7 million. Of course, by now you’ve guessed that these three college sophomores were Mark Zuckerberg, Dustin Moskovitz, and Chris Hughes of Facebook. Their story is now world famous. Many things about it are remarkable, but I’d like to focus on only one: how Facebook was able to raise so much money when its actual usage was so small.
						- Once the baseline has been established, the startup can work toward the second learning milestone: **tuning the engine**.
							- Every product development, marketing, or other initiative that a startup undertakes should be targeted at improving one of the drivers of its growth model.
								- For example, a company might spend time improving the design of its product to make it easier for new customers to use. This presupposes that the activation rate of new customers is a driver of growth and that its baseline is lower than the company would like. To demonstrate validated learning, the design changes must improve the activation rate of new customers. If they do not, the new design should be judged a failure. ^^This is an important rule: a good design is one that changes customer behavior for the better.^^
								- Day in and day out we were performing random trials. Each day was a new experiment. Each day’s customers were independent of those of the day before. Most important, even though our gross numbers were growing, it became clear that our funnel metrics were not changing.
						- Customer flows govern the interaction of customers with a company’s products. They allow us to understand a business quantitatively and have much more predictive power than do traditional gross metrics.
						-
			- Vanity Metrics and Failure
				- Vanity metrics can allow entrepreneurs to form false conclusions and live in their own private reality. This is particularly damaging to the decision to pivot because it robs teams of the belief that it is necessary to change.
				- When an entrepreneur has an unclear hypothesis, it’s almost impossible to experience complete failure, and without failure there is usually no impetus to embark on the radical change a pivot requires.
	- Vanity metrics can allow entrepreneurs to form false conclusions and live in their own private reality. This is particularly damaging to the decision to pivot because it robs teams of the belief that it is necessary to change.
	- When an entrepreneur has an unclear hypothesis, it’s almost impossible to experience complete failure, and without failure there is usually no impetus to embark on the radical change a pivot requires.
	- 98. many entrepreneurs are afraid. Acknowledging failure can lead to dangerously low morale. Most entrepreneurs’ biggest fear is not that their vision will prove to be wrong.
		- Your Highlight on Location 2145-2146
	- 99. This fear drives much of the resistance to the minimum viable product, split testing, and other techniques to test hypotheses.
		- Your Highlight on Location 2147-2148
	- 100. this fear drives up the risk because testing doesn’t occur until the vision is fully represented. However, by that time it is often too late to pivot because funding is running out.
		- Your Highlight on Location 2148-2149
	- 101. To avoid this fate, entrepreneurs need to face their fears and be willing to fail, often in a public way. In fact, entrepreneurs who have a high profile, either because of personal fame or because they are operating as part of a famous brand, face an extreme version of this problem.
		- Your Highlight on Location 2149-2151
	- 102. Remember that the rationale for building low-quality MVPs is that developing any features beyond what early adopters require is a form of waste. However, the logic of this takes you only so far. Once you have found success with early adopters, you want to sell to mainstream customers. Mainstream customers have different requirements and are much more demanding.
		- Your Highlight on Location 2263-2266
	- 103. Zoom-in Pivot In this case, what previously was considered a single feature in a product becomes the whole product. This is the type of pivot Votizen made when it pivoted away from a full social network and toward a simple voter contact product.
		- Your Highlight on Location 2303-2305
	- 104. Zoom-out Pivot In the reverse situation, sometimes a single feature is insufficient to support a whole product. In this type of pivot, what was considered the whole product becomes a single feature of a much larger product.
		- Your Highlight on Location 2305-2307
	- 105. Customer Segment Pivot In this pivot, the company realizes that the product it is building solves a real problem for real customers but that they are not the type of customers it originally planned to serve. In other words, the product hypothesis is partially confirmed, solving the right problem, but for a different customer than originally anticipated.
		- Your Highlight on Location 2307-2310
	- 106. Customer Need Pivot As a result of getting to know customers extremely well, it sometimes becomes clear that the problem we’re trying to solve for them is not very important. However, because of this customer intimacy, we often discover other related problems that are important and can be solved by our team. In many cases, these related problems may require little more than repositioning the existing product. In other cases, it may require a completely new product. Again, this a case where the product hypothesis is partially confirmed; the target customer has a problem worth solving, just not the one that was originally anticipated.
		- Your Highlight on Location 2310-2315
	- 107. Platform Pivot A platform pivot refers to a change from an application to a platform or vice versa. Most commonly, startups that aspire to create a new platform begin life by selling a single application, the so-called killer app, for their platform. Only later does the platform emerge as a vehicle for third parties to leverage as a way to create their own related products.
		- Your Highlight on Location 2317-2320
	- 108. Business Architecture Pivot This pivot borrows a concept from Geoffrey Moore, who observed that companies generally follow one of two major business architectures: high margin, low volume (complex systems model) or low margin, high volume (volume operations model).6 The former commonly is associated with business to business (B2B) or enterprise sales cycles, and the latter with consumer products (there are notable exceptions). In a business architecture pivot, a startup switches architectures. Some companies change from high margin, low volume by going mass market (e.g., Google’s search “appliance”); others, originally designed for the mass market, turned out to require long and expensive sales cycles.
		- Your Highlight on Location 2321-2327
	- 109. Value Capture Pivot There are many ways to capture the value a company creates. These methods are referred to commonly as monetization or revenue models. These terms are much too limiting. Implicit in the idea of monetization is that it is a separate “feature” of a product that can be added or removed at will. In reality, capturing value is an intrinsic part of the product hypothesis. Often, changes to the way a company captures value can have far-reaching consequences for the rest of the business, product, and marketing strategies.
		- Your Highlight on Location 2327-2331
	- 110. Engine of Growth Pivot As we’ll see in Chapter 10, there are three primary engines of growth that power startups: the viral, sticky, and paid growth models. In this type of pivot, a company changes its growth strategy to seek faster or more profitable growth. Commonly but not always, the engine of growth also requires a change in the way value is captured.
		- Your Highlight on Location 2332-2335
	- 111. Channel Pivot In traditional sales terminology, the mechanism by which a company delivers its product to customers is called the sales channel or distribution channel. For example, consumer packaged goods are sold in a grocery store, cars are sold in dealerships, and much enterprise software is sold (with extensive customization) by consulting and professional services firms. Often, the requirements of the channel determine the price, features, and competitive landscape of a product. A channel pivot is a recognition that the same basic solution could be delivered through a different channel with greater effectiveness. Whenever a company abandons a previously complex sales process to “sell direct” to its end users, a channel pivot is in progress. It is precisely because of its destructive effect on sales channels that the Internet has had such a disruptive influence in industries that previously required complex sales and distribution channels, such as newspaper, magazine, and book publishing.
		- Your Highlight on Location 2335-2342
	- 112. Technology Pivot Occasionally, a company discovers a way to achieve the same solution by using a completely different technology. Technology pivots are much more common in established businesses. In other words, they are a sustaining innovation, an incremental improvement designed to appeal to and retain an existing customer base. Established companies excel at this kind of pivot because so much is not changing. The customer segment is the same, the customer’s problem is the same, the value-capture model is the same, and the channel partners are the same. The only question is whether the new technology can provide superior price and/or performance compared with the existing technology. A
		- Your Highlight on Location 2343-2348
	- 113. A pivot is better understood as a new strategic hypothesis that will require a new minimum viable product to test.
		- Your Highlight on Location 2357-2358
	- 114. A pivot is not just an exhortation to change. Remember, it is a special kind of structured change designed to test a new fundamental hypothesis about the product, business model, and engine of growth. It is the heart of the Lean Startup method. It is what makes the companies that follow Lean Startup resilient in the face of mistakes: if we take a wrong turn, we have the tools we need to realize it and the agility to find another path.
		- Your Highlight on Location 2364-2367
	- 115. The critical first question for any lean transformation is: which activities create value and which are a form of waste?
		- Your Highlight on Location 2387-2387
	- 116. Once you understand this distinction, you can begin using lean techniques to drive out waste and increase the efficiency of the value-creating activities. For these techniques to be used in a startup, they must be adapted to the unique circumstances of entrepreneurship.
		- Your Highlight on Location 2387-2389
	- 117. Recall from Chapter 3 that value in a startup is not the creation of stuff, but rather validated learning about how to build a sustainable business. What products do customers really want? How will our business grow? Who is our customer? Which customers should we listen to and which should we ignore? These are the questions that need answering as quickly as possible to maximize a startup’s chances of success. That is what creates value for a startup.
		- Your Highlight on Location 2389-2392
	- 118. The small-batch approach produces a finished product every few seconds, whereas the large-batch approach must deliver all the products at once, at the end. Imagine what this might look like if the time horizon was hours, days, or weeks. What if it turns out that the customers have decided they don’t want the product? Which process would allow a company to find this out sooner?
		- Your Highlight on Location 2440-2443
	- 119. He was so relentless in rethinking the way machines were operated that he was able to reduce changeover times that previously took hours to less than ten minutes. He did this, not by asking workers to work faster, but by reimagining and restructuring the work that needed to be done. Every investment in better tools and process had a corresponding benefit in terms of shrinking the batch size of work.
		- Your Highlight on Location 2456-2459
	- 120. The biggest advantage of working in small batches is that quality problems can be identified much sooner.
		- Your Highlight on Location 2463-2464
	- 121. The andon cord can interrupt this careful flow as the line is halted repeatedly. However, the benefits of finding and fixing problems faster outweigh this cost. This process of continuously driving out defects has been a win-win for Toyota and its customers. It is the root cause of Toyota’s historic high quality ratings and low costs.
		- Your Highlight on Location 2466-2469
	- 122. Working in small batches ensures that a startup can minimize the expenditure of time, money, and effort that ultimately turns out to have been wasted.
		- Your Highlight on Location 2476-2477
	- 123. At IMVU, we attempted to design, develop, and ship our new features one at a time, taking advantage of the power of small batches. Here’s what it looked like. Instead of working in separate departments, engineers and designers would work together side by side on one feature at a time. Whenever that feature was ready to be tested with customers, they immediately would release a new version of the product, which would go live on our website for a relatively small number of people. The team would be able immediately to assess the impact of their work, evaluate its effect on customers, and decide what to do next. For tiny changes, the whole process might be repeated several times per day. In fact, in the aggregate, IMVU makes about fifty changes to its product (on average) every single day.
		- Your Highlight on Location 2491-2496
	- 124. Just as with the Toyota Production System, the key to being able to operate this quickly is to check for defects immediately, thus preventing bigger problems later.
		- Your Highlight on Location 2496-2498
	- 125. For example, we had an extensive set of automated tests that assured that after every change our product still worked as designed.
		- Your Highlight on Location 2498-2498
	- 126. The essential lesson is not that everyone should be shipping fifty times per day but that by reducing batch size, we can get through the Build-Measure-Learn feedback loop more quickly than our competitors can. The ability to learn faster from customers is the essential competitive advantage that startups must possess. SMALL BATCHES IN ACTION To see this process in action, let me introduce you to a company in Boise, Idaho, called SGW Designworks.
		- Your Highlight on Location 2538-2542
	- 127. The essential lesson is not that everyone should be shipping fifty times per day but that by reducing batch size, we can get through the Build-Measure-Learn feedback loop more quickly than our competitors can. The ability to learn faster from customers is the essential competitive advantage that startups must possess.
		- Your Highlight on Location 2538-2540
	- 128. Large batches tend to grow over time. Because moving the batch forward often results in additional work, rework, delays, and interruptions, everyone has an incentive to do work in ever-larger batches, trying to minimize this overhead.
		- Your Highlight on Location 2609-2611
	- 129. As soon as we formulate a hypothesis that we want to test, the product development team should be engineered to design and run this experiment as quickly as possible, using the smallest batch size that will get the job done. Remember that although we write the feedback loop as Build-Measure-Learn because the activities happen in that order, our planning really works in the reverse order: we figure out what we need to learn and then work backwards to see what product will work as an experiment to get that learning. Thus, it is not the customer, but rather our hypothesis about the customer, that pulls work from product development and other functions. Any other work is waste.
		- Your Highlight on Location 2662-2667
	- 130. Sustainable growth is characterized by one simple rule: New customers come from the actions of past customers.
		- Your Highlight on Location 2736-2737
	- 131. Engines of growth are designed to give startups a relatively small set of metrics on which to focus their energies.
		- Your Highlight on Location 2758-2759
	- 132. There are always a zillion new ideas about how to make the product better floating around, but the hard truth is that most of those ideas make a difference only at the margins. They are mere optimizations. Startups have to focus on the big experiments that lead to validated learning. The engines of growth framework helps them stay focused on the metrics that matter.
		- Your Highlight on Location 2760-2762
	- 133. This is one of the most important discoveries of the lean manufacturing movement: you cannot trade quality for time. If you are causing (or missing) quality problems now, the resulting defects will slow you down later. Defects cause a lot of rework, low morale, and customer complaints, all of which slow progress and eat away at valuable resources.
		- Your Highlight on Location 2999-3001
	- 134. Therefore, shortcuts taken in product quality, design, or infrastructure today may wind up slowing a company down tomorrow.
		- Your Highlight on Location 3012-3013
	- 135. Having a low-quality product can inhibit learning when the defects prevent customers from experiencing (and giving feedback on) the product’s benefits.
		- Your Highlight on Location 3017-3018
	- 136. To accelerate, Lean Startups need a process that provides a natural feedback loop. When you’re going too fast, you cause more problems. Adaptive processes force you to slow down and invest in preventing the kinds of problems that are currently wasting time. As those preventive efforts pay off, you naturally speed up again.
		- Your Highlight on Location 3023-3025
	- 137. The alternative is to use a system called the Five Whys to make incremental investments and evolve a startup’s processes gradually. The core idea of Five Whys is to tie investments directly to the prevention of the most problematic symptoms. The system takes its name from the investigative method of asking the question “Why?” five times to understand what has happened (the root cause). If you’ve ever had to answer a precocious child who wants to know “Why is the sky blue?” and keeps asking “Why?” after each answer, you’re familiar with it. This technique was developed as a systematic problem-solving tool by Taiichi Ohno, the father of the Toyota Production System. I have adapted it for use in the Lean Startup model with a few changes designed specifically for startups.
		- Your Highlight on Location 3031-3037
	- 138. How do you decide if the investment in training is worth the benefit of speed due to reduced interruptions? Figuring this out from a top-down perspective is challenging, because it requires estimating two completely unknown quantities: how much it will cost to build an unknown program against an unknown benefit you might reap. Even worse, the traditional way to make these kinds of decisions is decidedly large-batch thinking. A company either has an elaborate training program or it does not. Until they can justify the return on investment from building a full program, most companies generally do nothing.
		- Your Highlight on Location 3027-3031
	- 139. At the root of every seemingly technical problem is a human problem. Five Whys provides an opportunity to discover what that human problem might be. Taiichi Ohno gives the following example: When confronted with a problem, have you ever stopped and asked why five times? It is difficult to do even though it sounds easy. For example, suppose a machine stopped functioning: 1. Why did the machine stop? (There was an overload and the fuse blew.) 2. Why was there an overload? (The bearing was not sufficiently lubricated.) 3. Why was it not lubricated sufficiently? (The lubrication pump was not pumping sufficiently.) 4. Why was it not pumping sufficiently? (The shaft of the pump was worn and rattling.) 5. Why was the shaft worn out? (There was no strainer attached and metal scrap got in.)
		- Your Highlight on Location 3037-3045
	- 140. When the Five Whys approach goes awry, I call it the Five Blames. Instead of asking why repeatedly in an attempt to understand what went wrong, frustrated teammates start pointing fingers at each other, trying to decide who is at fault. Instead of using the Five Whys to find and fix problems, managers and employees can fall into the trap of using the Five Blames as a means for venting their frustrations and calling out colleagues for systemic failures.
		- Your Highlight on Location 3090-3093
	- 141. the goal of the Five Whys is to help us see the objective truth that chronic problems are caused by bad process, not bad people, and remedy them accordingly.
		- Your Highlight on Location 3094-3095
	- 142. the Five Blames. The first is to make sure that everyone affected by the problem is in the room during the analysis of the root cause. The meeting should include anyone who discovered or diagnosed the problem, including customer service representatives who fielded the calls, if possible. It should include anyone who tried to fix the symptom as well as anyone who worked on the subsystems or features involved. If the problem was escalated to senior management, the decision makers who were involved in the escalation should be present as well.
		- Your Highlight on Location 3096-3099
	- 143. When blame inevitably arises, the most senior people in the room should repeat this mantra: if a mistake happens, shame on us for making it so easy to make that mistake. In a Five Whys analysis, we want to have a systems-level view as much as possible.
		- Your Highlight on Location 3103-3105
	- 144. “If our production process is so fragile that you can break it on your very first day of work, shame on us for making it so easy to do so.” If they did manage to break it, we immediately would have them lead the effort to fix the problem as well as the effort to prevent the next
		- Your Highlight on Location 3108-3110
	- 145. At IMVU we told new hires, “If our production process is so fragile that you can break it on your very first day of work, shame on us for making it so easy to do so.” If they did manage to break it, we immediately would have them lead the effort to fix the problem as well as the effort to prevent the next
		- Your Highlight on Location 3108-3110
	- 146. At IMVU we told new hires, “If our production process is so fragile that you can break it on your very first day of work, shame on us for making it so easy to do so.” If they did manage to break it, we immediately would have them lead the effort to fix the problem as well as the effort to prevent the next person from repeating their mistake.
		- Your Highlight on Location 3108-3111
	- 147. For example, the Five Whys requires an environment of mutual trust and empowerment. In situations in which this is lacking, the complexity of Five Whys can be overwhelming. In such situations, I’ve often used a simplified version that still allows teams to focus on analyzing root causes while developing the muscles they’ll need later to tackle the full-blown method. I ask teams to adopt these simple rules: 1. Be tolerant of all mistakes the first time. 2. Never allow the same mistake to be made twice.
		- Your Highlight on Location 3116-3120
	- 148. Remember, most mistakes are caused by flawed systems, not bad people.
		- Your Highlight on Location 3122-3122
	- 149. You will need to be prepared for the fact that Five Whys is going to turn up unpleasant facts about your organization, especially at the beginning. It is going to call for investments in prevention that come at the expense of time and money that could be invested in new products or features.
		- Your Highlight on Location 3130-3132
	- 150. Building an adaptive organization, in other words, requires executive leadership to sponsor and support the process.
		- Your Highlight on Location 3135-3135
	- 151. 1. To introduce Five Whys to an organization, it is necessary to hold Five Whys sessions as new problems come up. Since baggage issues are endemic, they naturally come up as part of the Five Whys analysis and you can take that opportunity to fix them incrementally. If they don’t come up organically, maybe they’re not as big as they seem. 2. Everyone who is connected to a problem needs to be at the Five Whys session. Many organizations face the temptation to save time by sparing busy people from the root cause analysis. This is a false economy, as IGN discovered the hard way. 3. At the beginning of each Five Whys session, take a few minutes to explain what the process is for and how it works for the benefit of those who are new to it. If possible, use an example of a successful Five Whys session from the past. If you’re brand new, you can use my earlier example about the manager who doesn’t believe in training. IGN learned that, whenever possible, it helps to use something that has personal meaning for the team.
		- Your Highlight on Location 3177-3185
	- 152. “I daresay that I discovered that the Five Whys transcends root cause analysis by revealing information that brings your team closer through a common understanding and perspective. A lot of times a problem can pull people apart; Five Whys does the opposite.”
		- Your Highlight on Location 3201-3203
	- 153. Communication was critical for this change process to succeed. All the team leaders were open about the change they were driving and why they were driving it. Much of the skepticism they faced was based on the fact that they did not have concrete examples of where this had worked in the past; it was an entirely new process for Intuit. They had to explain clearly why the old process didn’t work and why the annual release “train” was not setting them up for success. Throughout the change they communicated the process outcomes they were shooting for: earlier customer feedback and a faster development cycle that was decoupled from the annual release time line. They repeatedly emphasized that the new approach was how startup competitors were working and iterating. They had to follow suit or risk becoming irrelevant. Historically,
		- Your Highlight on Location 3302-3309
	- 154. Communication was critical for this change process to succeed. All the team leaders were open about the change they were driving and why they were driving it. Much of the skepticism they faced was based on the fact that they did not have concrete examples of where this had worked in the past; it was an entirely new process for Intuit. They had to explain clearly why the old process didn’t work and why the annual release “train” was not setting them up for success. Throughout the change they communicated the process outcomes they were shooting for: earlier customer feedback and a faster development cycle that was decoupled from the annual release time line. They repeatedly emphasized that the new approach was how startup competitors were working and iterating. They had to follow suit or risk becoming irrelevant.
		- Your Highlight on Location 3302-3308
	- 155. Although the primary changes that are required in an adaptive organization are in the mind-set of its employees, changing the culture is not sufficient. As we saw in Chapter 9, lean management requires treating work as a system and then dealing with the batch size and cycle time of the whole process. Thus, to achieve lasting change, the QuickBooks team had to invest in tools and platform changes that would enable the new, faster way of working.
		- Your Highlight on Location 3315-3318
	- 156. Third, entrepreneurs need a personal stake in the outcome of their creations.
		- Your Highlight on Location 3375-3376
	- 157. can gauge whether it will win this coveted lottery. Teams have little confidence that they will receive any long-term
		- Your Highlight on Location 3391-3392
	- 158. Next, it is important to focus on establishing the ground rules under which autonomous startup teams operate: how to protect the parent organization, how to hold entrepreneurial managers accountable, and how to reintegrate an innovation back into the parent organization if it is successful.
		- Your Highlight on Location 3394-3396
	- 159. entrepreneurship should be considered a viable career path for innovators inside large organizations. Managers who can lead teams by using the Lean Startup methodology should not have to leave the company to reap the rewards of their skills or have to pretend to fit into the rigid hierarchies of established functional departments. Instead, they should have a business card that says simply “Entrepreneur” under the name. They should be held accountable via the system of innovation accounting and promoted and rewarded accordingly.
		- Your Highlight on Location 3534-3538
	- 160. Working in the innovation sandbox is like developing startup muscles. At first, the team will be able to take on only modest experiments. The earliest experiments may fail to produce much learning and may not lead to scalable success. Over time, those teams are almost guaranteed to improve as long as they get the constant feedback of small-batch development and actionable metrics and are held accountable to learning milestones.
		- Your Highlight on Location 3549-3552
	- 161. However, responding dogmatically is unhelpful. Compromising by automatically splitting the difference doesn’t work either. I’ve found that every suggestion should be subjected to the same rigorous scientific inquiry that led to the creation of the Lean Startup in the first place. Can we use the theory to predict the results of the proposed change? Can we incubate the change in a small team and see what happens? Can we measure its impact? Whenever they could be implemented, these approaches have allowed me to increase my own learning and, more important, the productivity of the companies I have worked with. Many of the Lean Startup techniques that we pioneered at IMVU are not my original contributions. Rather, they were conceived, incubated, and executed by employees who brought their own creativity and talent to the task.
		- Your Highlight on Location 3572-3577
	- 162. Above all, I faced this common question: How do we know that “your way” of building a company will work? What other companies are using it? Who has become rich and famous as a result? These questions are sensible. The titans of our industry are all working in a slower, more linear way. Why are we doing something different? It is these questions that require the use of theory to answer. Those who look to adopt the Lean Startup as a defined set of steps or tactics will not succeed. I had to learn this the hard way. In a startup situation, things constantly go wrong. When that happens, we face the age-old dilemma summarized by Deming: How do we know that the problem is due to a special cause versus a systemic cause? If we’re in the middle of adopting a new way of working, the temptation will always be to blame the new system for the problems that arise. Sometimes that tendency is correct, sometimes not. Learning to tell the difference requires theory. You have to be able to predict the outcome of the changes you make to tell if the problems that result are really problems.
		- Your Highlight on Location 3578-3585
	- 163. For example, changing the definition of productivity for a team from functional excellence—excellence in marketing, sales, or product development—to validated learning will cause problems. As was indicated earlier, functional specialists are accustomed to measuring their efficiency by looking at the proportion of time they are busy doing their work. A programmer expects to be coding all day long, for example. That is why many traditional work environments frustrate these experts: the constant interruption of meetings, cross-functional handoffs, and explanations for endless numbers of bosses all act as a drag on efficiency.
		- Your Highlight on Location 3586-3590
	- 164. Instead, we want to force teams to work cross-functionally to achieve validated learning.
		- Your Highlight on Location 3591-3591
	- 165. Many of the techniques for doing this—actionable metrics, continuous deployment, and the overall Build-Measure-Learn feedback loop—necessarily cause teams to suboptimize for their individual functions. It does not matter how fast we can build. It does not matter how fast we can measure. What matters is how fast we can get through the entire loop.
		- Your Highlight on Location 3591-3594
	- 166. In my years teaching this system, I have noticed this pattern every time: switching to validated learning feels worse before it feels better. That’s the case because the problems caused by the old system tend to be intangible, whereas the problems of the new system are all too tangible. Having the benefit of theory is the antidote to these challenges. If it is known that this loss of productivity is an inevitable part of the transition, it can be managed actively.
		- Your Highlight on Location 3594-3597
	- 167. In my years teaching this system, I have noticed this pattern every time: switching to validated learning feels worse before it feels better. That’s the case because the problems caused by the old system tend to be intangible, whereas the problems of the new system are all too tangible. Having the benefit of theory is the antidote to these challenges. If it is known that this loss of productivity is an inevitable part of the transition, it can be managed actively.
		- Your Highlight on Location 3594-3597
	- 168. In my years teaching this system, I have noticed this pattern every time: switching to validated learning feels worse before it feels better. That’s the case because the problems caused by the old system tend to be intangible, whereas the problems of the new system are all too tangible. Having the benefit of theory is the antidote to these challenges. If it is known that this loss of productivity is an inevitable part of the transition, it can be managed actively. Expectations can be set up front.
		- Your Highlight on Location 3594-3597
	- 169. Whereas Taylor preached science as a way of thinking, many people confused his message with the rigid techniques he advocated: time and motion studies, the differential piece-rate system, and—most galling of all—the idea that workers should be treated as little more than automatons. Many of these ideas proved extremely harmful and required the efforts of later theorists and managers to undo.
		- Your Highlight on Location 3614-3617
	- 170. Critically, lean manufacturing rediscovered the wisdom and initiative hidden in every factory worker and redirected Taylor’s notion of efficiency away from the individual task and toward the corporate organism as a whole. But each of these subsequent revolutions has embraced Taylor’s core idea that work can be studied scientifically and can be improved through a rigorous experimental approach.
		- Your Highlight on Location 3617-3619
	- 171. of memory, an effort of the imagination. And for this reason, even though our daily loss from this source is greater than from our waste of material things, the one has stirred us deeply, while the other has moved us but little.1 A century on, what can we say about those words? On the one hand, they feel archaic. We of the twenty-first century are hyperaware of the importance of efficiency and the economic value of productivity gains. Our workplaces are—at least when it comes to the building of material objects—incredibly well organized compared with those of Taylor’s day. On the other hand, Taylor’s words strike me as completely contemporary. For
		- Your Highlight on Location 3630-3636
	- 172. For all of our vaunted efficiency in the making of things, our economy is still incredibly wasteful. This waste comes not from the inefficient organization of work but rather from working on the wrong things—and on an industrial scale. As Peter Drucker said, “There is surely nothing quite so useless as doing with great efficiency what should not be done at all.”2
		- Your Highlight on Location 3636-3639
	- 173. For all of our vaunted efficiency in the making of things, our economy is still incredibly wasteful. This waste comes not from the inefficient organization of work but rather from working on the wrong things—and on an industrial scale. As Peter Drucker said, “There is surely nothing quite so useless as doing with great efficiency what should not be done at all.”2 And yet we are doing the wrong things efficiently all the time.
		- Your Highlight on Location 3636-3640
	- 174. It is insufficient to exhort workers to try harder. Our current problems are caused by trying too hard—at the wrong things. By focusing on functional efficiency, we lose sight of the real goal of innovation: to learn that which is currently unknown.
		- Your Highlight on Location 3654-3656
	- 175. The Lean Startup movement stands in contrast to this hand-wringing. We believe that most forms of waste in innovation are preventable once their causes are understood. All that is required is that we change our collective mind-set concerning how this work is to be done.
		- Your Highlight on Location 3652-3654
	- 176. As Deming taught, what matters is not setting quantitative goals but fixing the method by which those goals are attained.
		- Your Highlight on Location 3656-3657
	- 177. In the future it will be appreciated that our leaders must be trained right as well as born right, and that no great man can (with the old system of personal management) hope to compete with a number of ordinary men who have been properly organized so
		- Your Highlight on Location 3675-3676
	- 178. In the future it will be appreciated that our leaders must be trained right as well as born right, and that no great man can (with the old system of personal management) hope to compete with a number of ordinary men who have been properly organized so as efficiently to cooperate.
		- Your Highlight on Location 3675-3676
	- 179. In the past the man has been first; in the future the system must be first. This in no sense, however, implies that great men are not needed. On the contrary, the first object of any good system must be that of developing first-class men; and under systematic management the best man rises to the top more certainly and more rapidly than ever before.3
		- Your Highlight on Location 3677-3680
	- 180. This has led to two problems: (1) business systems became overly rigid and thereby failed to take advantage of the adaptability, creativity, and wisdom of individual workers, and (2) there has been an overemphasis on planning, prevention, and procedure, which enable organizations to achieve consistent results in a mostly static world. On the factory floor, these problems have been tackled head on by the lean manufacturing movement, and those lessons have spread throughout many modern corporations. And yet in new product development, entrepreneurship, and innovation work in general we are still using an outdated framework.
		- Your Highlight on Location 3684-3688
	- 181. We routinely green-light new projects more on the basis of intuition than facts. As we’ve seen throughout this book, that is not the root cause of the problem. All innovation begins with vision. It’s what happens next that is critical. As we’ve seen, too many innovation teams engage in success theater, selectively finding data that support their vision rather than exposing the elements of the vision to true experiments, or, even worse, staying in stealth mode to create a data-free zone for unlimited “experimentation” that is devoid of customer feedback or external accountability of any kind. Anytime a team attempts to demonstrate cause and effect by placing highlights on a graph of gross metrics, it is engaging in pseudoscience. How do we know that the proposed cause and effect is true? Anytime a team attempts to justify its failures by resorting to learning as an excuse, it is engaged in pseudoscience as well.
		- Your Highlight on Location 3697-3703
	- 182. What would an organization look like if all of its employees were armed with Lean Startup organizational superpowers? For one thing, everyone would insist that assumptions be stated explicitly and tested rigorously not as a stalling tactic or a form of make-work but out of a genuine desire to discover the truth that underlies every project’s vision. We would not waste time on endless arguments between the defenders of quality and the cowboys of reckless advance; instead, we would recognize that speed and quality are allies in the pursuit of the customer’s long-term benefit. We would race to test our vision but not to abandon it. We would look to eliminate waste not to build quality castles in the sky but in the service of agility and breakthrough business results. We would respond to failures and setbacks with honesty and learning, not with recriminations and blame. More than that, we would shun the impulse to slow down, increase batch size, and indulge in the curse of prevention. Instead, we would achieve speed by bypassing the excess work that does not lead to learning. We would dedicate ourselves to the creation of new institutions with a long-term mission to build sustainable value and change the world for the better. Most of all, we would stop wasting people’s time.
		- Your Highlight on Location 3765-3775