---
title: Books: 12 Rules for Life
---

- tags: #[[📥inbox]] #toRead
- type: #[[Reference Notes]]
- author: [[Jordan Peterson]]
- What are the author claims:
	- Happiness can only exist on the foundation of a value system. (Is this true?)
	- Share cultural beliefs are what people fight for, not necessarily what they believe in.
		- Cultural beliefs allow for people to feel safe among each other.
		- Conflicts arises from the differences of cultural beliefs.
- Introduction (#relativism #naturalism #virtue #philosophy)
	- Without [[rules]], we quickly become slaves to our passions—and there's nothing freeing about that. The story of the golden calf reminds us suggests: unchaperoned and left to our own untutored judgment, we are quick to aim low and worship qualities that are beneath us.
	  id:: 72c8db0d-d239-415d-9cf8-a8e762a18f45
		- By listing out rules we make our aspirations and [[goals]] public. We create a benchmark to aim for. This process helps to guide and focus us in the "right" direction rather than meandering with no aim. The best rules do not ultimately restrict us but instead, facilitate our goals and make for fuller, freer lives.
		  id:: e3f82eff-d1b1-466b-bc6e-1f7dd44c0b05
	- [[Ideologies]] are simple ideas, disguised as science or philosophy, that purport to explain the complexity of the world and offer remedies that will perfect it. [[Ideologues]] are people who pretend they know how to “make the world a better place” before they’ve taken care of their own chaos within. (The warrior identity that their ideology gives them covers over that chaos.) That’s hubris, of course, and one of the most important themes of this book, is “set your house in order” first, and Jordan provides practical advice on how to do this.
		- Ideologies are substitutes for true knowledge, and ideologues are always dangerous when they come to power, because a simple-minded I-know-it-all approach is no match for the complexity of existence. Furthermore, when their social contraptions fail to fly, ideologues blame not themselves but all who see through the simplifications. Another great U of T professor, Lewis Feuer, in his book Ideology and the Ideologists, observed that ideologies retool the very religious stories they purport to have supplanted, but eliminate the narrative and psychological richness. Communism borrowed from the story of the Children of Israel in Egypt, with an enslaved class, rich persecutors, a leader, like Lenin, who goes abroad, lives among the enslavers, and then leads the enslaved to the promised land (the utopia; the dictatorship of the proletariat).
	- In the West, there is a hunger for rules or guidelines because of two seemingly contradictory ideas of morality, simultaneously taught—at their schools, colleges, and universities. This contradiction has left the new generation disoriented and uncertain, without guidance and, more tragically, deprived of riches they don't even know exist. (Is this true--does relativism leave people disoriented or more aware ?)
		- The first idea or teaching is that morality is relative, at best a personal "value judgment." [[Relative]] means there is no absolute right or wrong in anything; instead, morality and the rules associated with it are just a matter of personal opinion or happenstance, "relative to" or "related to" a particular framework, such as one's ethnicity, or one's upbringing, or the culture or historical moment one is born into.
		- Our modern relativism asserts that making judgments about how to live is impossible because there is no real good, and no true virtue ( as these too are relative.) Thus relativism's closes approximation to "virtue" is "tolerance." Intolerance of others' views (no matter how ignorant or incoherent they may be) is not simply wrong; in a world where there is no right or wrong, it is worse: it is a sign you are embarrassingly unsophisticated or, possibly, dangerous. (False, intolerance for hurtful and harmful views should be a norm, irrespective if they are ignorant or not)
		- But it turns out that many people cannot tolerate the vacuum—the chaos—which is inherent in life, but made worse by this moral relativism; they cannot live without a moral compass, without an ideal at which to aim in their lives. (For relativists, ideals are values too, and like all values, they are merely “relative” and hardly worth sacrificing for.) So, right alongside relativism, we find the spread of nihilism and despair, and also the opposite of moral relativism: the blind certainty offered by ideologies that claim to have an answer for everything. (Does relativism lead to nihilism? I don't think so)
		- And so we arrive at the second teaching that millennials have been bombarded with. They sign up for a humanities course, to study greatest books ever written. But they’re not assigned the books; instead they are given ideological attacks on them, based on some appalling simplification. Where the relativist is filled with uncertainty, the ideologue is the very opposite. He or she is hyper-judgmental and censorious, always knows what’s wrong about others, and what to do about it. Sometimes it seems the only people willing to give advice in a relativistic society are those with the least to offer.
	- Modern moral relativism has many sources. As the West learned more history, we understood that different epochs had different moral codes. Geographically we learn of tribes whose different moral codes made sense relative to, or within the framework of their societies.
		- Science too played a role in moral relativism by undermining the religious grounds for ethics and rules. Materialist science implied we could divide the world into facts (which are observable and thus objective and real) and values (which are subjective and personal). This implies that values are secondary to objective facts.
	- Philosophy was the Greek response to the knowledge that different cultures had different rules, morals, and customs. Socrates helped invent philosophy to reason out these differences by asking questions such as "What is virtue?" and "How can one live a good life?" and "What is justice?"
		- Aristotle argued that though there are cultural differences in morals and values, what does not differ is that in all places human beings by their nature have a proclivity to make rules, laws, and customs. The idea that human life can be free of moral concern is a fantasy.
	- **If one wants to live a full life, one first set one's own house in order; and on then can one sensibly aim to take on bigger responsibilities.**
- Overture
	- The great myths and religious stories of the past, particularly those derived earlier from oral tradition, were moral in their intent, rather than descriptive. They were concerned with how humans should act rather than describe the world at that time.
	- Shared [[belief systems]] made people intelligible to one another—and that the systems weren't just about belief. Sharing the same beliefs made the individuals predictable to another through acting in keeping each other's expectations and desires. They can cooperate and compete peacefully because everyone knew what to expect from each other. #competition #tribalism #culture
		- People will fight, not necessarily for what they believe in, but rather to keep the shared system intact, the match between what they believe, expect, and desire among others of the tribe. They will fight to maintain the match between what they expect and how everyone is acting. It is through this maintenance that enables everyone to live together peacefully, predictably, and productively.
		- Shared belief systems also help control emotional turmoil like rage, guilt anxiety, disgust, contempt often leading to conflict and sometimes resulting in deadly results. So it would make sense that people would fight the thing that would save them from being possessed by emotions of chaos and terror.
		- A shared cultural system not only stabilizes human interaction but it is also a system of value—a hierarchy of value, where some things are given priority and importance and others are not. #[[value system]]
			- We have been programmed to act on a system of value and our capability for [[happiness]] relies on it. "We can't even perceive, because both action and perception require a goal, and a valid goal is, by necessity, something valued. We experience much of our positive emotions in relation to [[goals]]. We are not happy, technically speaking unless we see ourselves progressing—and the very idea of progression implies value. Without value, there is no meaning  #happiness (Is this claim true, look for falsibiality?)
			  id:: 46aad14a-4c8a-4ebf-a3df-cd2699b0019d
		- In the evaluation of shared value systems, there is the possibility of [[conflict]]s between groups who believe in different value systems countered with the loss of group-centered beliefs, rendering life chaotic, miserable, and meaningless. "In the West, we have been withdrawing from our tradition-, religion- and even nation-centered cultures, partly to decrease the danger of group conflict. But we are increasingly falling prey to the desperation of meaninglessness, and that is no improvement at all."
			- How could society as a whole, the world, escape the conflict on one hand and psychological and social dissolution on the other hand? The answer was through the voluntary elevation and development of the individual. Each of us must bear the burden and take responsibility for individual life, society, and the world. "We must each tell the truth and repair what is in disrepair and break down and recreate what is old and outdated."
				- But how can we tell what is truth? Isn't truth relative?
- Lobster
	- Anxiety and depression cannot be easily treated if the sufferer has unpredictable daily routines. The systems that mediate negative emotion are tightly tied to the properly cyclical circadian rhythms.