---
title: Books: Experiencing God
---

- metadata:
author: [[David Bentley Hart]]
tags: #[[Religion]] #Christianity

- chapter 1: "God" is not a proper name
	 - ^^People may not understand or believe in something because they fail to comprehend or lack the necessary conceptual framework and vocabulary to do so. If we lack the conceptual grammar required to interpret something, that something is unintelligible to us.^^
		 - ^^Before we engage in [[discussion]] or [[debate]] make sure all the parties sharing their ideas, thoughts, beliefs are drawing from within the same sphere of knowledge, vocabulary and understanding^^
			 - Unfortunately, one of the more insidious aspects of today's public debates over belief and unbelief is that they are often sustained by the illusion that both sides are using the same words in the same way; since there are no immediately obvious linguistic barriers to overcome, each side understands the other just well enough to be deceived into thinking that both working within the same conceptual frame. 

- Quote: I am convinced that the case for belief in God is inductively so much stronger that the case of unbelief that true philosophical [[atheism]

- Quote: I am convinced that the case for belief in God is inductively so much stronger that the case of unbelief that true philosophical [[atheism]] must be regarded as superstition, often nurtured by an infantile wish to live in a world proportionate to one's own hope or conceptual limitation. [[David Bentley Hart]]

- Quote: When I say that atheism is a kind of obliviousness to the obvious. I mean that if one understands what the actual philosophical definition of "God" is in most of the great religious tradition, and if consequently one understands what is logically entailed in denying that there is any God so defined, then one cannot reject the reality of God tout court without embracing an ultimate absurdity.

^^The one fully consistent alternative to belief in God, properly understood, is some version of [[materialism]] or physicalism, or to use the term most widely preferred naturalism; and [[naturalism]]--the doctrine that there is nothing apart from the physical order, and certainly nothing supernatural^^--is an incorrigibly incoherent concept, and one that is ultimately indistinguishable from pure magical thinking. The very notion of nature as a close system entirely sufficient to itself is plainly one that cannot be verified, deductively or empirically, from within the system of nature. It is  a metaphysical (which is to say "extra-natural") conclusion regarding the whole of reality, which neither reason nor experience legitimately warrants. It cannot even define itself within the boundaries of its terms, because the total sufficiency of "natural" explanations is not an identifiable natural phenomenon but only an arbitrary judgment.

- [[naturalism]] alone among all considered philosophical attempts to describe the shape of reality, is insufficient in its explanatory range.** It cannot give account and which its most fundamental principle make it entirely impossible to explain nature's very own existence**. ^^ For existence is not a natural phenomenon; it is logically prior to any physical cause whatsoever; and anyone who imagines that it is susceptible of a natural explanation simply has no grasp of what the question of existence really is. ^^In fact, it is impossible to say how, in the terms of naturalism, nature could exist at all. 

- ^^If there is no God, then the course of the universe is ultimately absurd, in the very precise sense that it is irreducible to any more comprehensive "equation." It is glorious, terrible, beautiful, horrifying--all of that--but in the end it is also quite, quite meaningless. The secret of a happy life then is either not to notice or not let it bother one overly much. A few blithe spirits even know how to rejoice at the thought.  ^^

- Before believing any information that is for or against a certain topic make sure that the person who is sharing that information knows what they are talking about. 
	 - If one could conclusively show that the philosophical claims the major religions make about the nature and reality of God were fundamentally incoherent or demonstrably false, that would be a significant achievement; but if one is content in merely to devise images of God that are self-evidently nonsensical, and then proceed triumphantly to demonstrate just how infuriatingly nonsensical they are, one is not going to accomplish anything interesting. For the sake of harmony, I for one am more than willing to acknowledge that God described by the new atheists definitely does not exist; but, to be perfectly honest, that is an altogether painless concession to make. [[David Bentley Hart]]

- ^^The Bible should not be read as some sort of objective and impeccably consistent digest of historical data. It is of course absurd to treat the Bible in that way though frankly no more absurd than thinking that "science shows that God does not exist"^^
	 - The bible was not read in that way in the ancient or medieval church. The Church Fathers, took it for granted that the creation narratives of Genesis could not be treated literally, at least not in the sense we give to the word today, but must be read allegorically--which, incidentally, does not mean read as stories whose value lies in the spiritual truths to which they can be seen as pointing. 
		 - Origen said that no one could doubt that these are figural tales, communicating spiritual mysteries, and certainly not historical records. 

		 - Gregory of Nyssa said if one does not read scripture in a "philosophical" fashion one will see only myths and contradictions. 

		 - There is a good reason why among Darwin's contemporaries, even as orthodox a Christian thinker as John Henry Newman could find nothing in the science of evolution contrary to or problematic for the doctrine of creation. 

- ^^At least with regard to Western culture, it was not until the modern period that  a significant minority of believers became convinced the truth of their faith depended upon an absolutely literal-an absolutely "factual"--interpretation of scripture, and felt compelled to stake everything on so ludicrous a wager. ^^
	 - Now to Bible came to be seen as what it obviously is not: a collection of "inerrant" oracles and historical reports, each subject to only one level of interpretation.

	 - The early fundamentalist movement opposed itself to Darwinism because many believed that there was logical conflict between the idea that God had created the world and the idea that terrestrial life had evolved over time. This was and is a view held, of course, by any number of atheists as well.

	 - One assumes that fundamentalist Christians and fundamentalist materialists alike are aware that Christian believe God is the creator of every person; but presumably none of them would be so foolish as to imagine that this means each person is not also the product of a spermatozoon and ovum; surely they grasp that here God's act of creation is understood as the whole event of nature and existence, not as a distinct causal agency that in some way rivals the natural process of conception. Somehow, though, even in the minds of some Christians, God has come to be understood not as the truly transcendent source and end of all contingent reality, who creates through "donating" being to a natural order that is complete in itself, but only as a kind of supreme mechanical cause located somewhere within the continuum of nature. Which is only to say that, here at the far end of modernity, the concept of God is often just as obscure to those who want to believe as to those who want not to. Ours is in many ways a particularly unsubtle age.

	 - God so understood is not something posed over against the universe, in addition to it, nor is he the universe itself. He is not a "being," at least not in the way that a tree, shoemaker, or a god is a being; he is not one more object in the inventory of things that are, or any sort of discrete object at all. Rather, all things that exist receiver their being continuously from him. who is the infinite wellspring of all that is, in whom (to use the language of the Christian scriptures) all things live and move and have their being. In one sense he is "beyond being," if by "being" one means the totality of discrete, finite things. In another sense he is "being itself," in that he is the inexhaustible source of all reality, the absolute upon which the contingent is always utterly dependent, the unity and simplicity that underlies and sustains the diversity of finite and composite things. Infinite being, infinite consciousness, infinite bliss, from whom we are, by whom we know and are known, and in whom we find our only true consummation. All the great theistic traditions agree that God, understood in this proper sense is essentially beyond finite comprehension...
		 - All agree as well, however, that he can genuinely be known: that is, reasoned toward, intimately encountered, directly experienced with fullness surpassing mere conceptual comprehension. 

		 - God in not merely one, in the way that a finite object might be merely singular or unique, but is oneness as such, the one act of being and unity by which any finite thing exists and by which all things exists together. He is one in the sense that being itself is one, the infinite is one, the source of everything is one. 

	 - Obviously, then, it is God in the former-the transcendent-sense in whom it is ultimately meaningful to believe or not to believe...To be an atheist in the best modern sense, however, and so to be a truly intellectually and emotionally fulfilled naturalist in philosophy, one must genuinely succeed in not believing in God, with all the logical consequence such disbelief entails.

	 - Yet the most pervasive error one encounters in contemporary arguments about belief in God-especially, but not exclusively, on the theist side-is the habit of conceiving of God simply as some very large object or agency within the universe, or perhaps alongside the universe, a being among other beings, who differs from all other beings in magnitude, power, and duration, but not ontologically, and who is related to the world more or less as craftsman is related to an artifact.  

	 - Beliefs regarding God concern the source and ground and end of all reality, the unity and existence of every particular thing and of the totality of all things, the ground of the possibility of anything at all. Fairies and gods, if they exist, occupy something of the same conceptual space as organic cells, photons, and the force of gravity, and so the science perhaps have something to say about them could be found. God is the infinite actuality that makes it possible for either photons or (possibly) fairies to exist, and so can be "investigated" only, on one had, by acts of logical deduction and induction and conjecture or, on the other, by contemplative or sacramental or spiritual experiences.  

	 - The question of God is one that can and must be pursued in terms of absolute and the contingent, the necessary  and the fortuitous, potency and act, possibility and impossibility, being and nonbeing, transcendence and immanence.
		 - Evidence for or against the reality of God, if it is there, saturates every moment of the experience of existence, every employment of reason, every act of consciousness, every encounter with the world around us. 

	 - The god with whom most modern popular atheism usually concerns itself is one we might call a "[[demiurge]]": a Greek term that originally meant a kind of public technician or artisan but that came to mean a particular kind of divine "world-maker" or cosmic craftsman. He (the demiurge) is, not the source of existence of all things but rather only the intelligent Designer and causal agent of the world of space and time, working upon materials that lie outside and below him, under the guidance of divine principles that lie outside and above him. He is an immensely wise and powerful being, but he is also finite and dependent upon a larger reality of which he is only a part.
		 - Suffice it to say that the demiurge is a maker, but not a creator in the theological sense: he is an imposer of order, but not the infinite ocean of being that gives existence to all reality ex nihilo. 

		 - God whose creative act is an eternal gift of being to the whole of space and time, sustaining all things in existence in every moment. It is certainly the demiurge about whom Stenger and Dawkins write; neither has actually ever written a word about God.  And the same is true of all other new atheists.

- Intelligent Design

- The recent [[Intelligent Design]] movement represents the demiurge’s boldest adventure in some considerable time.  Moreover, if one already believes in God, it makes perfect sense to see, say, the ever more extraordinary discoveries of molecular biology, or the problem of protein folding, or the incredible statistical improbabilities of a whole host of cosmological conditions (and so on) as bearing witness to something miraculous and profoundly rational in the order of nature, and to ascribe these wonders to God. But, however compelling the evidence may seem, one really ought not to reverse the order of discovery here and attempt to deduce or define God from the supposed evidence of design in nature. As either a scientific or a philosophical project, Intelligent Design theory is a deeply problematic undertaking; and, from a theological or metaphysical perspective, it is a massive distraction.
	 - To begin with, much of the early literature of this movement concerned instances of supposedly “[[irreducible complexity]]” in the biological world, and from these developed an argument for some sort of intelligent agency at work in the process of evolution. That would, of course, be a fascinating discovery if it could be shown to be true; but I do not see how in principle one ever could conclusively demonstrate such a thing. It could never be more than an argument from probability, because one cannot prove that any organism, however intricate, could not have been produced by some unguided phylogenic history. [[Probability]] is a powerful thing, of course, but notoriously difficult to measure in the realm of biology’s complex systems of interdependence, or over intervals of time as vast as distinct geological epochs. And it would be quite embarrassing to propose this or that organism or part of an organism as a specimen of an irreducibly complex biological mechanism, only for it to emerge later that many of its components had been found in a more primitive form in some other biological mechanism, serving another purpose. Even if all this were not so, however, seen in the light of traditional theology the argument from irreducible complexity looks irredeemably defective, because it depends on the existence of causal discontinuities in the order of nature, “gaps” where natural causality proves inadequate. But all the classical theological arguments regarding the order of the world assume just the opposite: that God’s creative power can be seen in the rational coherence of nature as a perfect whole; that the universe was not simply the factitious product of a supreme intellect but the unfolding of an omnipresent divine wisdom or logos. For Thomas Aquinas, for instance, God creates the order of nature by infusing the things of the universe with the wonderful power of moving of themselves toward determinate ends; he uses the analogy of a shipwright able to endow timbers with the power to develop into a ship without external intervention. According to the classical arguments, universal rational order—not just this or that particular instance of complexity—is what speaks of the divine mind: a cosmic harmony as resplendently evident in the simplicity of a raindrop as in the molecular labyrinths of a living cell. After all, there may be innumerable finite causes of complexity, but a good argument can be made that only a single infinite cause can account for perfect, universal, intelligible, mathematically describable order. If, however, one could really show that there were interruptions in that order, places where the adventitious intrusions of an organizing hand were needed to correct this or that part of the process, that might well suggest some deficiency in the fabric of creation. It might suggest that the universe was the work of a very powerful, but also somewhat limited, designer. It certainly would not show that the universe is the creature of an omnipotent wisdom, or an immediate manifestation of the God who is the being of all things. Frankly, the total absence of a single instance of irreducible complexity would be a far more forceful argument in favor of God’s rational action in creation.

- [[geocentrism]] In the old model, it was much more the case that the earth and inhabitants were placed at the lowest and most defective level of reality. Here below, all was mutability: degeneration, decay, death, and ceaseless change. There above, by contrast, lay the region of the incorruptible fifth element. 
	 - To many, what the most startling about the new cosmology was not that humanity had been expelled from the heart of reality, but that change and disorder had been introduced into the beautiful harmonies above. 

- Western persons quickly acquired the habit of seeing the universe not simply as something that can be investigated according to a mechanistic paradigm, but as in fact a machine. 
	 - [[Rene Descartes]] (1596-1650) - envisaged the human soul as a "ghost in the machine." 

	 - The god of Deist thought was not the fullness of being, of who the world was a wholly dependent manifestation, but was merely part of a larger reality that included both himself and his handiwork; and he was related to that handiwork only extrinsically, as one object to another. The cosmos did not live and move and have its being in him; he lived and moved and had his being in it, as a discrete entity among other entities, a separate and definite thing, a mere paltry Supreme Being. And, inasmuch as his role was only that of the first efficient cause within a continuous series of efficient causes, it required only the development of physical and cosmological theories that had no obvious need of "that hypothesis" to conjure him away. 

- Evolution
	 - In the ancient or mediaeval worlds, the idea of the [[evolution]] of species would not necessarily have posed a very great intellectual challenge for the educated classes, at least not on religious grounds. Aristotelian orthodoxy maintained the fixity of species, true, but one often finds a remarkably undogmatical approach to the questions of natural history in classical, patristic, and mediaeval sources, and (as I have noted) no dominantly great interest in a literalist reading of the creation narratives of scripture. 
		 - It would not have been drastically difficult for philosophers or theologians to come to see such evolution as the natural unfolding of the rational principles of creation into forms primordially enfolded within the indwelling rational order of things. In the wake of the triumph of the mechanical philosophy, however, when nature’s “rationality” had come to be understood only as a matter of mechanical design engineered from without, the Darwinian proposal of natural selection suggested the possibility that nature might instead be the product of wholly indeterminate—wholly mindless—forces. This was indeed, as [[Daniel Dennett]] has said, a dangerous idea to many minds; once enunciated, the concept of generative and cumulative indeterminate selection could perhaps come to be seen as an explanation for everything. Today, in fact, some physicists even wonder whether our universe and its physical laws might not in some sense be the product of such selection, played out among an unimaginably immense variety of universes. Who knows? Whatever the case, however, it seemed a dangerous idea only because of the metaphysical epoch in which it was first proposed. In a different age, it would have threatened merely to modify the prevailing picture of how “higher” causes work upon material nature, but it would not have been mistaken for a rival metaphysics. Nor should it ever have been. Natural selection obviously cannot by itself account for the existence of the universe, or for the lawfulness of nature, because—to sound again one of this book’s persistent motifs—^^the question of being cannot be answered by a theory that applies only to physical realities, and because even natural selection must be bound to an ensemble of physical laws to which it could not itself have given rise^^. By the latter half of the nineteenth century, however, very few persons remembered how to ask either the question of being or the question of nature’s lawfulness properly; both had been largely lost sight of, even by most philosophers and theologians, somewhere behind the imposing and seemingly urgent question of cosmic design. Ontology had been displaced by cosmology, and cosmology had been reduced to a matter of mechanics. In an age in which God had come to be thought of merely as the architect and technician of an intrinsically mindless natural order, the thought that the appearance of design in nature might actually be only the residue of a long and varied history of fortuitous attritions and mutations seemed to imply that an adventitious designer had no necessary part to play in the grand scheme of things. There was simply no longer any need for this ghost beyond the machine. 

		 - Evolutionary biologists, for instance, often try to explain an evolutionary adaptation by "reverse engineering" it from whatever purposes it serves in the present, trying all the while to discern what other purposes its earlier forms might have served in very different settings. May biologists concede the best approach to understanding an organism is often to treat it as though it was an intentional system oriented towards specific purposes and ends. Though evolution itself should give purpose to the ends.  

		 - Genetic fallacy: the mistake of thinking that to have described a thing's material history or physical origins is to have explained that thing exhaustively.  We tend to presume that if we discover the temporally prior physical cause of some object—one has thereby eliminated all other possible causal explanations of that object. 
			 - Identifying the material and the efficient causes of a thing could never be proof of the absence or logical superfluity of formal and final causes. 
				 - Whether, for example, the appearance of purpose in nature is a result of attrition and selection, or whether that long process is itself the result of the imperative of a greater purpose is not a matter that can be adjudicated empirically.  (logically both could be true)

				 - Science can never shed any light on the lawfulness that informs material nature, since they must resume that lawfulness as the prior condition of all theories. 

			 - If we look exclusively for material and efficient processes, all this shows is that we can coherently describe physical events in mechanical terms. It does not prove that a certain phenomena cannot also be described otherwise with as much or more accuracy. 

			 - A method, is a systematic set of limitations and constraints voluntarily assumed by a researcher in order to concentrate his or her investigations upon a strictly defined aspect of or approach to a clearly delineated object. It allows one to see further and more perspicuously in particular instance and in one particular way, but only because one has first consented to confine oneself to a narrow portion of the visible spectrum.
				 - While a given may grant one a glimpse of truths that would remain otherwise obscure, that method is not itself truth. 

				 - A method, considered in itself, may even in some ultimate sense be "false" as an explanation of things and yet still be probative as an instrument of investigation; some things are more easily seen through a red filter, but to go through life wearing rose-colored spectacles is not to see things as they truly are. 
					 - When one forgets the distinction between method and truth, one becomes foolishly prone to respond to any questions that cannot be answered from the vantage of one's particular methodological perch by dismissing it as nonsensical, or by issuing a promissory note guaranteeing a solution to the problem at some juncture in the remote future, or by simply distorting the question into one that looks like the kind one really can answer after all.
						 - The art of humble questioning has been mistaken for the sure possession of ultimate conclusions. 

			 - Many take it as established principle that we can know as true only what can be verified by empirical methods of experimentation and observation. This is, for one thing, a notoriously self-refuting claim, in as much as it cannot itself be demonstrated to be true by any application of empirical method. 
				 - The sciences concern certain facts organized by theories and these theories in turned constrained by certain facts. They (theories) accumulate evidence and enucleate hypotheses within very strictly limited paradigms; but they do not provide proofs of where reality begins or ends, or of what the dimensions of truth are. 
					 - They cannot establish their own working premises—the real existence of the phenomenal world, the power of the human intellect accurately to reflect that reality, the perfect lawfulness of nature, its interpretability, its mathematical regularity. Material scientists confine themselves to the truths to which their methods give them access. 

		 - Even if one believes that human consciousness and culture are the results solely of evolutionary forces, one still cannot prove that they function only in a Darwinian fashion, and any attempt to do so soon dissolves into a rosy mist of picturesque similes.
			 - High accomplishment in one field—even genius in the that field—does not necessarily translate into so much as the barest competence in any other. 
				 - The field of science cannot provide knowledge of everything; they cannot provide complete knowledge of anything. They can yield only knowledge of certain aspects of things as seen from one very powerful but inflexibly constricted perspective. 

- Chapter IV
	 - [[naturalism]] claims that by  confining itself to purely material explanations for all things, it adheres to the only sure path of verifiable knowledge is circular thinking: physics explain everything, which we know because anything physics cannot explain does not exist, which we know because whatever exists must be explicable by physics, which we know because physics explains everything. 
		 - The picture of the world that naturalism presents to us is not the phenomenal world we all experience but rather an intuition of its hidden principles, a supposition regarding its secret essence. 
			 - Reality to us is experienced not through our senses but our sensations as interpreted by thought, under the aspect of organizing eidetic patterns.

			 - Even in the purely physiological realm, we have no direct knowledge of unguided material forces simply spontaneously producing the complex order that constitutes our world.

	 - Science and philosophy are both reductive arts, both attempt toward understanding, to reduce reality to its simplest constituents and most elementary functions (physical or logical.) This, however, can only yield a complete account of the whole of reality only if, once the total reduction of nature has been accomplished(which is impossible.) There follows a rational reconstruction of nature that can lead back seamlessly from reality's barest constituents to the phenomenal world from which the process of reduction first departed, And to do so without any prospective, guiding reference to that world without a final cause.
		 - If this is not possible, all that remains of naturalism is an irrational creed, sustained by a catechetical commitment to an insidious "not but" or "only": as in, "You are nothing but your genes" or "Reality is only molecules, atoms, and subatomic particles in motions."

		 - In the end, one of course is perfectly free to believe in the "just-there-ness" of the quantum order and of the physical laws governing it. What is absolutely certain is that the naturalist view of things is just a picture of the world, not a truth about the world that rests upon a secure rational foundation. 
