title:: Clear Thinking (highlights)
author:: [[Shane Parrish]]
full-title:: "Clear Thinking"
media:: #books
status:: #📥inbox

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[2023-11-17]]
	- In order to get the results we desire, we must do two things. We must first create the space to reason in our thoughts, feelings, and actions; and second, we must deliberately use that space to think clearly. Once you have mastered this skill, you will find you have an unstoppable advantage. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfedz77c73w4kxbzctppe29p))
		- **Note**: Regarding achieving clear thinking
	- In these moments of reaction, we don’t realize that our brains have been hijacked by our biology, and that the outcome will go against what we seek. We don’t realize that hoarding information to gain an advantage is hurting the team. We don’t realize we’re conforming to the group’s ideas when we should be thinking for ourselves. We don’t realize our emotions are making us react in ways that create problems downstream. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfeem3xfezqj8mmbtdq53zeq))
		- **Note**: Regarding emotions and it’s impact on clear thinking
	- So our first step in improving our outcomes is to train ourselves to identify the moments when judgment is called for in the first place, and pause to create space to think clearly. This training takes a lot of time and effort, because it involves counterbalancing our hardwired biological defaults evolved over many centuries ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfeeq86sr7ab34k4xsfvxrbn))
		- **Note**: Context: emotional control
	- For instance, like all animals, **we are naturally prone to defend our territory**.[[2]](private://read/01hfebcp97xn4qp9fw4vb9t9rq#EndnoteNumber1) We might not be defending a piece of terrain on the African savanna, but territory isn’t just physical, it’s also psychological. Our identity is part of our territory too. When someone criticizes our work, status, or how we see ourselves, we instinctively shut down or defend ourselves. When someone challenges our beliefs, we stop listening and go on the attack. No thoughts, just pure animal instinct ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfeewdfhh7a4cq7sskrntsr6))
	- **We’re naturally wired to organize the world into a hierarchy.** We do this to help make sense of the world, maintain our beliefs, and generally feel better. But when someone infringes on our place in the world and our understanding of how it works, we react without thinking. When someone cuts you off on the highway and road rage kicks in, that’s your unconscious mind saying, “Who are you to cut me off?” You’re reacting to a threat to your inherent sense of hierarchy. On the road we are all equals. We’re all supposed to play by the same rules. Cutting someone off violates those rules and implies higher status.[[*]](private://read/01hfebcp97xn4qp9fw4vb9t9rq#footnote_2) Or consider when you get frustrated with your kids and end an argument with “Because I said so.” (Or the office equivalent: “Because I’m the boss.”) In these moments you’ve stopped thinking and regressed to your biological tendencies of reaffirming the hierarchy ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfeexcthgwj03nrm5a0ps4we))
	- **We’re self-preserving.** Most of us would never intentionally push someone else down to get where we want to go.[[*]](private://read/01hfebcp97xn4qp9fw4vb9t9rq#footnote_3) The key word here is “intentionally,” because intention involves thought. When we’re triggered and not thinking, our desire to protect ourselves first takes over. When layoffs loom at a company, otherwise decent people will quickly throw each other under the bus to keep a job. Sure, they wouldn’t consciously want to hurt their colleagues, but if it comes down to “them versus me,” they will ensure they come out on top. That’s biology. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfeeztb9tyd80nb58khaw1yj))
	- While there are many such instincts, four stand out to me as the most prominent, the most distinctive, and the most dangerous. These behaviors represent something akin to our brain’s default or factory settings ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfef14tj7jryygxmxppkqgpp))
	- Here’s how each essentially functions:
	  
	  1. The emotion default: we tend to respond to feelings rather than reasons and facts.
	  
	  2. The ego default: we tend to react to anything that threatens our sense of self-worth or our position in a group hierarchy.
	  
	  3. The social default: we tend to conform to the norms of our larger social group.
	  
	  4. The inertia default: we’re habit forming and comfort seeking. We tend to resist change, and to prefer ideas, processes, and environments that are familiar. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfef1a3czektpdk9m8kenrx5))
	- People who master their defaults get the best real-world results. It’s not that they don’t have a temper or an ego, they just know how to control both rather than be controlled by them. With the ability to think clearly in ordinary moments today, they consistently put themselves in a good position for tomorrow ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfef2x0y5qpp2t2q7qdjzd9c))
	- Who hasn’t found themselves in a similar situation? Someone close to you doesn’t appreciate you the way you want to be appreciated. Perhaps they don’t see how insightful you are. Or maybe they don’t see how much you do for them. Desperate to satisfy the ego, either personally or professionally, you stop thinking and do things you otherwise wouldn’t, like approach a competitor or flirt with someone at a party. One example I’ve seen too many times in the workplace is when you stop putting in 100 percent of what you are capable of because you feel underappreciated.[[*]](private://read/01hfebcp97xn4qp9fw4vb9t9rq#footnote_2) The ego grabs your unconscious, throws your long-term goals out the window, and sets you sailing on a path toward destruction. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfefn0x5ac201vwn6gqykbm6))
	- The ego default urges us to feel right at the expense of being right. Few things feel better than being right—so much so that we will unconsciously rearrange the world into arbitrary hierarchies to maintain our beliefs and feel better about ourselves ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfefp8xbcepgt22a5tbms29b))
	- Most people go through life assuming that they’re right . . . and that people who don’t see things their way are wrong.[[2]](private://read/01hfebcp97xn4qp9fw4vb9t9rq#EndnoteNumber5) We mistake how we want the world to be with how it actually is. The subject doesn’t matter: we’re right about politics, other people, our memories; you name it. We mistake how we want the world to work for how it does work. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfefr6281zb8ptfdmg4x1jpg))
	- Of course, we can’t be right about everything all the time. Everyone makes mistakes or misremembers some things. But we still want to *feel* right all the time, and ideally get other people to reinforce that feeling. Hence, we channel inordinate amounts of energy to proving to others—or ourselves—that we’re right. When this happens, we’re less concerned with outcomes and more concerned with protecting our egos ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfefv4g2h2wrx88vg7ffnp9d))
	- The only way to outperform if you’re doing undifferentiated work is to work harder than everyone else ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfeg46asf98kb8b6jk7p9sw0))
	- Imagine a team of ditchdiggers working with their hands. A slight variation in the amount of soil moved per hour is barely perceptible. Your work is indistinguishable from that of the person next to you. The only way to move more dirt is to dig for longer. Within this paradigm, the ditchdigger who takes a week off to experiment and invent the shovel seems crazy. Not only do they look like a fool for taking a risk, but their cumulative production falls behind for every day they are not digging. Only when the shovel comes along do others see its advantage. Success requires shamelessness. So too does failure. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfeg5b23b1wk1yr1z23p25ge))
	- Doing something different means you might underperform, but it also means you might change the game entirely. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfeg5m5r2m32yy1v2yes5ezx))
	- If you do what everyone else does, you’ll get the same results that everyone else gets.[[*]](private://read/01hfebcp97xn4qp9fw4vb9t9rq#footnote_2) Best practices aren’t always the best. By definition, they’re average ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfeg61wjwb9jparav5kkmg94))
	- If you don’t know enough about what you’re doing to make your own decisions, you probably should do what everyone is doing. If you want better-than-average results, though, you’ll have to think clearly. And thinking clearly is thinking independently. Sometimes you have to break free of the social default and do something differently from those around you. Fair warning: it’s going to get uncomfortable.
	  
	  Our desire to fit in often overpowers our desire for a better outcome. Instead of trying something new, we tell ourselves something new ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfegd9qsh8ajeb3k83zv9xyy))
	- Deviating from established practices can be painful. Who wants to try something different that might not work? We could end up losing people’s respect, their friendship, and even our job if we deviate too far from the status quo without producing the right results. This is why we rarely try new approaches, and when we do, we often proceed with so much trepidation that the smallest setback sends us back to the safety blanket of conformity ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfeggz9wq7a06y0d3pd5he0v))
	- It’s easy to take comfort in the fact that other people agree with us. As legendary investor Warren Buffett pointed out, though, “The fact that other people agree or disagree with you makes you neither right nor wrong. You will be right if your facts and reasoning are correct ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfegh9x7qxfnvh14dh1yjjg3))
	- The people executing established practices say they want new ideas, but they just don’t want the bad ones. And because they so want to avoid the bad ones, they never deviate enough to find new good ones ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfeghkz05hp74d27skpv1a21))
	- While we need divergence from the norm to make progress, not all divergence is advantageous. To be successful, it’s not enough to do something different; you also need to be right. To do something different, you need to think different. And that means you will stand out.[[*]](private://read/01hfebcp97xn4qp9fw4vb9t9rq#footnote_3) ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfeghz58nqqjjxx6y438watp))
	- Lou Brock might have put it best when he said, “Show me a guy who’s afraid to look bad, and I’ll show you a guy you can beat every time.” In other words, someone who’s possessed by the social default is easy to defeat.
	  
	  Warren Buffett similarly highlighted the effects of the social default in his 1984 letter to Berkshire Hathaway’s shareholders:
	  
	  > Most managers have very little incentive to make the intelligent-but-with-some-chance-of-looking-like-an-idiot decision. Their personal gain/loss ratio is all too obvious: if an unconventional decision works out well, they get a pat on the back and, if it works out poorly, they get a pink slip. (Failing conventionally is the route to go; as a group, lemmings may have a rotten image, but no individual lemming has ever received bad press.)[[4]](private://read/01hfebcp97xn4qp9fw4vb9t9rq#EndnoteNumber9) ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfegjwstdx1px54z9m6heffj))
	- The “zone of average” is a dangerous place when it comes to inertia. It’s the point where things are working well enough that we don’t feel the need to make any changes. We hope things will magically improve. Of course, they rarely do ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfeh2ey0185znf1r3arhkf8t))
	- That’s just how it goes sometimes when we’re forming or breaking habits. What may look like discipline often involves a carefully created environment to encourage certain behaviors. And what may look like poor choices is often just someone trying their best to use willpower and bumping up against their defaults. The people with the best defaults are typically the ones with the best environment. Sometimes it’s part of a deliberate strategy, and sometimes it’s just plain luck. Either way, it’s easier to align yourself with the right behavior when everyone else is already doing it. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfejesw2kydaw53d4cmpttn8))
	- The way to improve your defaults isn’t by willpower but by creating an intentional environment where your desired behavior becomes the default behavior.
	  
	  Joining groups whose default behaviors are your desired behavior is an effective way to create an intentional environment. If you want to read more, join a book club. If you want to run more, join a running club. If you want to exercise more, hire a trainer. Your chosen environment, rather than your willpower alone, will help nudge you toward the best choices ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfejhz0aekp0tqqe7qjcpxp3))
	- Establishing rituals is the key to creating positive inertia. Rituals focus the mind on something other than the moment. They can be as simple as taking a quick pause before responding to someone’s point of contention at work. One of my old mentors used to tell me, “When someone slights you in a meeting, take a deep breath before you speak and watch how often you change what you’re about to say. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfejkneyqrhpz8mhrdwd0rhh))
	- Complaining is not a strategy. You have to work with the world as you find it, not as you would have it be.
	  
	  —JEFF BEZOS[[1]](private://read/01hfebcp97xn4qp9fw4vb9t9rq#EndnoteNumber14) ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfekcgpzy0mac41e7rffv2vs))
	- Too often, the people we ask for feedback are kind but not nice. Kind people will tell you things a nice person will not. A kind person will tell you that you have spinach on your teeth. A nice person won’t because it’s uncomfortable. A kind person will tell us what holds us back even when it’s uncomfortable. A nice person avoids giving us critical feedback because they’re worried about hurting out feelings. No wonder we end up thinking other people will be interested in our excuses.[[*]](private://read/01hfebcp97xn4qp9fw4vb9t9rq#footnote_2) ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfekga52x8k1vsjcc7jbk024))
	- Just because something happened that was outside of your control doesn’t mean it’s not your responsibility to deal with it the best you can. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hffk28wf2tc1stpyqqsycwwr))
	- The path to being exceptional begins when you decide to be responsible for your actions no matter the situation. Exceptional people know they can’t change the hand they’ve been dealt, and don’t waste time wishing for a better one. They focus instead on how they’re going to play the cards they have to achieve the best result. They don’t hide behind others. The best people rise to the challenge—whatever it is. They choose to live up to their best self-image instead of surrendering to their defaults ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hffk6n19he28thrrs7vp1fbh))
	- One of the most common mistakes people make is bargaining with how the world should work instead of accepting how it does work. Anytime you find yourself or your colleagues complaining “that’s not right,” or “that’s not fair,” or “it shouldn’t be that way,” you’re bargaining, not accepting. You want the world to work in a way that it doesn’t.
	  
	  Failing to accept how the world really works puts your time and energy toward proving how right you are. When the desired results don’t materialize, it’s easy to blame circumstances or others. I call this the wrong side of right. You’re focused on your ego not the outcome.
	  
	  Solutions appear when you stop bargaining and start accepting the reality of the situation. That’s because focusing on the next move, rather than how you got here in the first place, opens you up to a lot of possibilities. When you put outcome over ego, you get better results. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hffk79fn14s6db6nt3wvhvjw))
	- You can’t control everything, but you can control your response, which makes circumstances better or worse. Each response has an impact on the future, taking you either a step closer to or a step further from the outcomes you want and the person you want to be.
	  
	  One effective question to ask yourself before you act is, “Will this action make the future easier or harder?”[[*]](private://read/01hfebcp97xn4qp9fw4vb9t9rq#footnote_5) This surprisingly simple question helps change your perspective on the situation and avoid making things worse. As my grandfather (and many others) used to say, “If you find yourself in a hole, the first thing you need to do is stop digging.” ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hffk9bjd66rfkhfbwjrfa4eq))
	- Complaining isn’t productive. It only misleads you into thinking that the world should function in a way that it doesn’t. Distancing yourself from reality makes it harder to solve the problems you face. There is always something you can do today to make the future easier, though, and the moment you stop complaining is the moment you start finding it. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hffke6q55wfrdjxjnsq3afyc))
	- When you constantly blame circumstances, the environment, or other people, you are effectively claiming that you had little ability to affect the outcome. But that’s not what actually happened. The truth is that we make repeated choices in life that become habits, those habits determine our paths, and those paths determine our outcomes. When we explain away those unwanted outcomes, we absolve ourselves of any responsibility for producing them ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hffne600gsnbh8fv60mtm77v))
	- The lesson was an important one: the things you choose not to do often matter as much as the things you choose to do. The real test of a person is the degree to which they are willing to nonconform to do the right thing ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hffnhp3egxf99y3n16r6v5q8))
	- No successful person wants to work with a chronic victim. The only people who want to work with victims are other victims.
	  
	  If you pay attention to chronic victims, you’ll notice how fragile they are—how dependent their attitudes and feelings are on things they don’t control. When things go their way, they’re happy; when things don’t, they’re defensive, passive-aggressive, and occasionally *aggressive*-aggressive. If their spouse is in a bad mood, they’re in a bad mood too. If they hit traffic on the way to work, they bring their anger and frustration to work with them. If a project they’re leading isn’t on track, they blame someone on their team. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hffnkgkvdvn813qw7726efnz))
	- Self-accountability is the strength of realizing that even though you don’t control everything, you do control how you respond to everything. It’s a mindset that empowers you to act and not just react to whatever life throws at you. It transforms obstacles into opportunities for learning and growth. It means realizing that the way you respond to hardship matters more to your happiness than the hardship itself. And it means understanding that the best path is often just to accept things and move on. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hffnkn8c6v80chdvp9rzmda4))
	- Understanding what you do and don’t know is the key to playing games you can win. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hffnx0vhebzf651nrx51x1c2))
	- It’s Not the Size of Your Knowledge, but How You Use It
	  
	  Knowing just what it is that you know is among the most practical skills you can have. The size of what you know isn’t nearly as important as having a sense of your knowledge’s boundaries. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hffnyjbt1csxyn2b9mx7wkts))
	- When you play games where other people have the aptitude and you don’t, you’re going to lose. You have to figure out where you have an edge and stick to it. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hffnyz37ardzarxjj483dyzw))
	- It’s not enough to know where you have an edge; you also have to know when you are operating outside of it. If you don’t know which side of the line you’re on, or that there even is a line at all, you’re outside your boundaries.
	  
	  Self-knowledge isn’t limited just to hard skills, though. It’s also about knowing when you’re vulnerable to your defaults—the kinds of situations where circumstances do the thinking for you. Maybe you’re prone to being overly emotional—to sadness, anger, or intrusive self-defeating thoughts. Maybe you have a short temper when you’re tired, or you become an ogre when you’re hungry. Maybe you’re acutely sensitive to social pressure and the threat of social scorn.
	  
	  Knowing about your strengths and weaknesses, your abilities and their limits is essential to counteracting your defaults. If you don’t know your vulnerabilities, your defaults will exploit them to gain control of your circumstances ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hffnze2s69d8scq9k2gv83kd))
	- Some people are like corks bobbing around in the waves of an emotional sea. Their actions are in thrall to their emotions: anger, joy, sadness, fear—whatever gets triggered in the moment. Other people, however, decide to take command of their life. They seize the helm, decide where they want to go, and steer the ship in that direction despite the waves. They still experience ups and downs like everybody else; they just don’t allow those waves of emotion to determine the direction of their life. Instead, they turn the wheel as needed using good judgment to keep themselves on course. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hffp9b4wq2e3zrj32gzbkvsw))
	- Self-control is about creating space for reason instead of just blindly following instincts. It’s about being able to view and manage your emotions as if they were inanimate objects—things that don’t have the power to determine what you do unless you let them. It’s about putting distance between yourself and your emotions, and realizing that you have the power to determine how you respond to them. You can react when they prompt you, or instead think clearly and consider whether they’re worth following. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hffpbdcgqp0bey0m6azpws62))
	- A large part of achieving success is having the self-control to do whatever needs to be done, regardless of whether you feel like doing it at the moment. Emotional intensity is far less important in the long run than disciplined consistency. Inspiration and excitement might get you going, but persistence and routine are what keep you going until you reach your goals. Anyone can maintain excitement for a few minutes, but the longer a project takes, the fewer the people who can maintain their excitement for it. The most successful people have the self-control to keep going anyway. It’s not always exciting, but they still show up. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hffpewr7t9b9w8mdejzagg2h))
- New highlights added [[2023-11-18]] at 7:04 PM
	- Self-confidence is about trusting in your abilities and your value to others ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfhnw20nvtc9fjvgsh35c55d))
	- You need self-confidence to think independently and to stand firm in the face of social pressure, ego, inertia, or emotion. You need it to understand that not all results are immediate, and to focus on doing what it takes to earn them eventually. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfhnwq0182kj0r7wfvj4tp8x))
	- Self-confidence empowers resilience in the aftermath of negative feedback, and adaptability in the face of changing circumstances. You know what your abilities are and how they add value, whether other people appreciate them or not. If you’ve forged a healthy sense of self-confidence, it will see you through whatever emerging challenges and difficulties come your way. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfhnxp7cchq390rtzs3vx3e6))
	- Self-confidence is what empowers you to execute difficult decisions and develop self-knowledge. While the ego tries to prevent you from acknowledging any deficiencies you may have, self-confidence gives you the strength to acknowledge those deficiencies. This is how you learn humility. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfhpv6g55gyaf13jhqr6667e))
	- Confidence without humility is generally the same thing as overconfidence—a weakness, not a strength. Confident people have the strength to admit weaknesses and vulnerabilities, to acknowledge that other people might be better at something than they are, and to ask when they need help. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfhpvg27krec5nanxqtwfgbk))
	- More dreams die from a lack of confidence than a lack of competence. But while confidence is often a byproduct of our accomplishments, it also comes from how you talk to yourself ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfhq41fp76j3qpzd12bh81v1))
	- The first thing we did was to focus on our breathing. Your breath is a powerful tool that helps you calm your mind. We started taking a normal inhale and then immediately inhaling again with a smaller breath. It’s the same way we naturally breathe when we’re sobbing, and the results are similarly soothing. Only once we had relaxed our physical bodies could we change our inner dialogue.
	  
	  I asked him how he was talking to himself at that moment—and it wasn’t good. He was beating himself up, telling himself how dumb it had been to climb up in the first place, how he should have known better, and how scared he was. This is the same way we all tend to talk to ourselves sometimes—or at least it is in my experience.
	  
	  The second thing we did was change the conversation he was having inside his head. We know how the words we say to other people impact how they feel, but we rarely think of how the words we say to ourselves impact us. I asked him to list off some of the things he’d already done that he had feared before doing them. The question was barely out of my mouth when he started to tell me about snowboarding and the time we “mistakenly” ended up on a double black diamond and the first time he went wakeboarding. The list went on. There was no shortage of situations he’d been in that had required courage ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfhqamefv0y7ed2qhna81mz9))
		- **Note**: How to talk to yourself when in scary situations or when you lack confidence.
	- People who are confident aren’t afraid of facing reality because they know they can handle it. Confident people don’t care what other people think about them, aren’t afraid of standing out, and are willing to risk looking like an idiot while they try something new. They’ve been beaten down and rebuilt themselves enough times to know that they can do it again if they have to. Crucially, they also know that to outperform the crowd, you have to do things differently sometimes, and that hecklers and naysayers inevitably tend to follow. They take their feedback from reality, not popular opinion ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfhqckptqq3ad4hq0631prma))
	- Self-confidence is also the strength to accept hard truths. We all have to deal with the world as it is, not as we want it to be. The quicker you stop denying inconvenient truths and start responding to difficult realities, the better. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfht1569dj5t4s4nctp6g0wh))
	- The quicker you accept reality, though, the quicker you can deal with the implications, and the sooner you do that, the easier those implications are to manage. Most of the time, needing to wait for the right moment to do a hard thing is just an excuse: a way to rationalize putting off what needs to be done. There is no perfect moment.[[1]](private://read/01hfebcp97xn4qp9fw4vb9t9rq#EndnoteNumber16) There’s only the desire to continue waiting for one. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfht2g65ah41p30ht6ndx2cc))
	- was taking a stroll one day with the CEO of a large public company, when we started discussing how he hired people for key roles.
	  
	  I asked, “If you could pick one trait that would predict how someone would turn out, what would it be?”
	  
	  “That’s easy,” he said. “How willing they are to change their mind about what they think they know.”
	  
	  The most valuable people, he continued, weren’t the ones with the best initial ideas, but the ones with the ability to quickly change their minds. They were focused on outcome over ego. By contrast, he said, the people most likely to fail were those obsessed with minute details that supported their point of view.
	  
	  “They’re too focused on proving they’re right instead of being right,” he said. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfht4ana2nwzqp2scdgae3ya))
	- In order to be right, you must be willing to change your mind. If you’re not willing to change your mind, you’re going to be wrong a lot. The people who frequently find themselves on the wrong side of right are people who can’t zoom in and out and see the problem from multiple angles. They get locked into one perspective: their own. When you can’t see a problem from multiple points of view, you have blind spots. And blind spots get you in trouble ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfht573nd5yea15brmewyfrw))
	- When everything is on your shoulders and the cost of being wrong is high, I told her, you tend to focus on what’s right instead of who’s right. The more I’d given up wanting to be right, the better the outcomes I had. I didn’t care about getting the credit; I cared about getting the results. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfhthk1my5c1bg8979wdy9yq))
	- Self-confidence is the strength to focus on what’s right instead of who’s right. It’s the strength to face reality. It’s the strength to admit mistakes, and the strength to change your mind. Self-confidence is what it takes to be on the right side of right. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfhtjfzvqqpa2xsv407cbcpb))
	- The first step to building any of your strengths is raising the standards to which you hold yourself, a practical matter of looking around at the people and practices that pervade your day-to-day environment. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfhtvg8stv6h07m27gt2p9ay))
	- Our surroundings influence us—both our physical environment and the people around us. Few things are more important in life than avoiding the wrong people. It’s tempting to think that we are strong enough to avoid adopting the worst of others, but that’s not how it typically works. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfhtwatkvxphvna8167cjvt9))
	- Becoming like the people around you means that over time you come to adopt their standards. If all you see are average people, you will end up with average standards. But average standards aren’t going to get you where you want to go. Standards become habits, and habits become outcomes. Few people realize that exceptional outcomes are almost always achieved by people with higher-than-average standards. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfhtzxv6tkz5hp531gy1sc4h))
	- The most successful people have the highest standards, not only for others but for themselves ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfhvqkpsa0tqre1dxrn7r8s1))
	- Champions don’t create the standards of excellence. The standards of excellence create champions ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfhvs256k6bmfv8jq9wt0vdn))
	- High standards are consistent across top performers. When you look at any athlete or team that performs on a level beyond what you can explain by luck or talent, you find a commitment to high standards ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfhvsfg3j0hr6kgs545fxdha))
	- Most of the time when we accept substandard work from ourselves, it’s because we don’t really care about it. We tell ourselves it’s good enough, or the best we can manage given our time constraints. But the truth is, at least in this particular thing, we’re not committed to excellence. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfhvx26e998x3cv6jd527kqr))
	- When we accept substandard work from others, it’s for the same reason: we’re not all in. When you’re committed to excellence, you don’t let anyone on your team half-ass it. You set the bar, you set it high, and you expect anyone working with you to work just as hard and level up to what you expect or above. Anything less is unacceptable. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfhvxb0k0y47zjzdqjqpfxce))
	- Masters of their craft don’t merely want to check off a box and move on. They’re dedicated to what they do, and they keep at it. Master-level work requires near fanatical standards, so masters show us what our standards should be. A master communicator wouldn’t accept a ponderous, rambling email. A master programmer wouldn’t accept ugly code. Neither of them would accept unclear explanations as understanding. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfj317cex5pd6tt2mybvjngg))
	- We’ll never be exceptional at anything unless we raise our standards, both of ourselves and of what’s possible. For most of us, that sounds like a lot of work. We gravitate toward being soft and complacent. We’d rather coast. That’s fine. Just realize this: if you do what everyone else does, you can expect the same results that everyone else gets. If you want different results, you need to raise the bar. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfj31kj9qm3v00k6nypx0y1f))
	- Working with a master firsthand is the best education; it’s the surest way of raising the bar. Their excellence demands your excellence. But most of us aren’t lucky enough to have that opportunity. Still, not all is lost. If you don’t have the chance to work with a master directly, you can still surround yourself with people who have higher standards by reading about them and their work ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfj32256r9dqhr5rms1q13qe))
	- There are two components to building strength by raising the bar:
	  
	  (a) Choose the right exemplars—ones that raise your standards. Exemplars can be people you work with, people you admire, or even people who lived long ago. It doesn’t matter. What matters is they make you better in a certain area, like a skill, trait, or value.
	  
	  (b) Practice imitating them in certain ways. Create space in the moment to reflect on what they’d do in your position, and then act accordingly ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfj32z662wfsjgjn64h4cqen))
	- commented, “I never allow myself to have an opinion on anything unless I know the other side’s argument better than they do.” ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfj37qk03g4qrwywret49tyh))
	- Talk about raising the bar! Many people have opinions, but very few have done the work required to hold them. Doing that work means you can argue against yourself better than your real opponents can. It forces you to challenge your beliefs because you have to argue from both sides. It’s only when you put in the work that you come to really understand an argument. You understand the reasons for and against it. Through that work you earn the confidence to endorse it.[[4]](private://read/01hfebcp97xn4qp9fw4vb9t9rq#EndnoteNumber23) ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfj386sac1app46t8624nx8w))
	- It’s not enough just to pick exemplars and assemble a personal board of directors. You also have to follow their example—not just once or twice, but again and again. Only then will you internalize the standards they embody, and become the kind of person you want to be. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfj3h4zpredwjm4593n7fpc9))
	- PART OF TAKING command of your life is controlling the things you can. Another part is managing the things you can’t—your vulnerabilities or weaknesses. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfj3xw74wkhkq68vn1t0jb6f))
	- There are two ways to manage your weaknesses. The first is to build your strengths, which will help you overcome the weaknesses you’ve acquired. The second is to implement safeguards, which will help you manage any weaknesses you’re having trouble overcoming with strength alone. In addition, safeguards help us manage weaknesses that are impossible to overcome—for example, the ones we owe to our biological limitations ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfj4nsfnkvzmy15e1vnjf8de))
	- It’s not enough to know about your biases and other blind spots. You have to take steps to manage them. If you don’t, the defaults will take control ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfj4qsdeh0x7m332xdjmq6ek))
	- We fail to see our own weaknesses for three main reasons.
	  
	  First, those flaws can be hard for us to detect because they’re part of the way we’re accustomed to thinking, feeling, and acting. Flawed behavior has become ingrained through a long process of habit formation. Those flaws are part of who we are, even if it’s not in line with who we want to be.
	  
	  Second, seeing our flaws bruises our egos—especially when those flaws are behaviors that are deeply ingrained. They’re different from shortcomings like, say, lacking a technical skill, because they feel like a referendum on the kind of person we think we are. We are territorial about how we see ourselves and tend to dismiss information that challenges our self-image.
	  
	  Third, we have a limited perspective. It is very hard to understand a system that we are a part of. Just as you look back on your sixteen-year-old self and wonder what you were thinking, your future self will look back on your current self and think the same thing. Your present self is blind to the perspective of your future self. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfj4s8h9ctzp92jdws0a9ky4))
	- From the start, Abrashoff knew you can’t simply order people to be better. Even if that appears to work, the results are short term and the consequences enormous. It doesn’t matter if you’re on a ship or running a manufacturing company. You don’t tap into people’s resourcefulness, intelligence, and skills by command-and-control.
	  
	  “Show me an organization in which employees take ownership, and I will show you one that beats its competitors,” says Abrashoff. “Captains need to see the ship from the crew’s perspective. They need to make it easy and rewarding for crew members to express themselves and their ideas.”[[3]](private://read/01hfebcp97xn4qp9fw4vb9t9rq#EndnoteNumber29)
	  
	  There is a gap in our thinking that comes from believing that the way we see the world is the way the world really works. It’s only when we change our perspective—when we look at the situation through the eyes of other people—that we realize what we’re missing. We begin to appreciate our own blind spots and see what we’ve been missing ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfj5brh5k0zmtb9we8a33kg3))
		- **Note**: You have to model the behavior rather than commanding it.
	- The first kind of safeguard aims at preventing problems before they happen. One way to do this is to avoid decision-making in unfavorable conditions. Stress, for instance, is a big contributor to bad decisions. Some studies have shown that stress short-circuits the deliberation process—it undermines the systematic evaluation of alternatives that’s needed for effective decision-making.[[1]](private://read/01hfebcp97xn4qp9fw4vb9t9rq#EndnoteNumber30) ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfj5vy3n3znd8cew0kyh8nzb))
	- Alcoholics Anonymous has a helpful safeguard for its members. They call it HALT—an acronym that stands for Hungry, Angry, Lonely, and Tired. When you feel like having a drink, they say, ask yourself whether any of these conditions apply. If so, deal with the real problem—hunger, anger, loneliness, or fatigue—instead of reaching for a drink.
	  
	  You can use the principles behind HALT as a safeguard for decision-making in general. If you have an important decision to make, ask yourself: “Am I hungry? Am I angry or otherwise emotional? Am I lonely or otherwise stressed by my circumstances, such as being in an unfamiliar environment or pressed for time? Am I tired, sleep-deprived, or physically fatigued?” If the answer is yes to any of these questions, avoid making the decision if you can. Wait for a more opportune time. Otherwise, your defaults will take over ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01hfj5wyzss6b6n477vnw3xkvy))