title:: Five Ways to Address Complexity in Your Product (highlights)
author:: [[caseyaccidental.com]]
full-title:: "Five Ways to Address Complexity in Your Product"
media:: #articles
status:: #📥inbox 
url:: https://caseyaccidental.com/product-complexity?ref=refind

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[2023\-07\-03]]
	- Facebook was a different story. One thing Facebook did very successfully as it scaled functionality was to prove out the value of features in its core app and then unbundle them into separate apps later on. This keeps their user interfaces, especially on mobile, more focused and easier to navigate. Facebook has now done this with multiple features across Facebook and Instagram. It hasn’t always worked, but that is usually because the product/market fit of the product isn’t always strong enough to survive on its own e.g Facebook Local (failure) vs. Facebook Messenger (success). Uber did the same exact thing with Uber Eats. I have written about this strategy before [here](https://caseyaccidental.com/distribution\-real\-estate/).
	  
	  The pros of this strategy seem pretty obvious. Leverage the scale of the initial product experience to expose people to the new value prop, confirm product/market fit, then move that new product experience elsewhere so the new value prop’s added complexity doesn’t deteriorate product/market fit for the initial product. The issue with this mentality is that once a product is unbundled, it no longer receives as much new user acquisition from the initial product it was built inside of, and sustainable acquisition loops are a key part of [product/market fit](https://caseyaccidental.com/caseys\-guide\-to\-finding\-product\-market\-fit/). Facebook has notably not spun out Facebook Marketplace or Facebook Watch, likely for this reason, and sunset Facebook Local after initially spinning it out. Many app developers tried to launch multiple apps as part of a trend called app constellations, and pretty much all of them failed because user acquisition is really difficult, or they failed to create product value (read more about this [here](https://andrewchen.com/why\-arent\-app\-constellations\-working\-guest\-post/)). ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01ghzd1sjdvkxwp3cxbvrxzewg))
		- **Note**: Validate and un\-bundle approach to product complexity.
	- One of the key strategies we took at Pinterest to solve the first mile problem was to remove functionality from the initial experience to make sure new users could learn the core concepts. Advanced features like group boards and messaging were not available to new users until we saw that they understood how to save content and access their boards. Once we confirmed the user activated, we started to give them access to the entire product, confident they could handle the increased complexity. This is a form of progressive disclosure to prevent new users from being overwhelmed, but only delays the complexity problem to beyond the activation period. To be clear, this was a very successful strategy for Pinterest, and a dominant approach to new user activation, which is why so many growth teams have dedicated activation or onboarding teams that leverage techniques like this. But it only delays the inevitable complex product in the hope that users are better prepared for it. This is a particularly ineffective strategy when there are more permanent differences between the complexity needs of different users, more common in business use cases like ours at Eventbrite. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01ghzd6p7mfw31gjv25pztqa34))
	- The inspiration we were able to take from this approach is progressive disclosure work typically calls into question whether certain features should exist at all. Eventbrite had accrued many features of questionable value because a creator here or there used them. We started aggressively deleting such features in 2020, which helped make the product and code base less complex. We had much success with deleting features entirely at Pinterest as well, and I have written about both [feature deletion](https://caseyaccidental.com/feature\-product\-fit/) and [successful onboarding](https://caseyaccidental.com/startup\-onboarding) in the past. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01ghzd6cfn24jdhn5xqspvhct1))