title:: Get It Done (highlights)
author:: [[Ayelet Fishbach]]
full-title:: "Get It Done"
media:: #books

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[2023-02-13]]
	- So how do you motivate yourself? The short answer is by changing your circumstances. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gs4bknxnsz85vyxqdk6sape4))
	- If you ever put a psychologist, a sociologist, and an economist in one room, that basic principle—changing behavior by modifying the situation in which it occurs—might be the one truth they’ll agree on (and you should expect heated arguments on just about everything else). This principle is fundamental to behavioral science. It also underlies many of the discoveries in the science of motivation. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gs4bmaaay8t0my21131eh7as))
	- You modify your own behavior by modifying the situation in which it occurs. You might, for example, know that you’ll eat whatever is in sight when you’re hungry. So if you want to start eating better, a good solution would be to fill up your fridge with fresh fruits and veggies. Another way would be to tell your family that you want to eat healthily so they hold you accountable next time you reach for a doughnut. You could also mentally change the meaning of a creamy doughnut from “delicious” to “detrimental.” These very different strategies (more about them later) have one thing in common: they change your circumstances. Filling your fridge with veggies changes the options you have when you’re reaching for a snack. Telling your family you want to eat better changes who you’re accountable to. And telling yourself that doughnuts are “detrimental” changes your mental image of that fluffy fried dough. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gs4chtb2e9enp0htdt1asdqz))
	- First, you need to choose a goal. Whether you set your mind to finding romance or doing a handstand, and whether you’re an expert or a novice, you start by marking a destination. Second, you need to sustain your motivation as you move from here to there. You monitor your progress by soliciting feedback on your performance, both positive and negative, and by looking back at what you’ve achieved as well as forward at what is still left to do. Third, you must learn to juggle multiple goals. Other goals and desires will pull you in opposite directions. You need to learn to manage these goals, set priorities, and find the right balance. Finally, you’ll learn to leverage social support. It’s hard to reach your goals by yourself and even harder when certain people stand in your way. On the other hand, when you let others help you, pursuing your goal gets easier. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gs4cq03w6cgwsx3kfwgpbbf9))
	- [Part I](https://readwise.io/reader/document_raw_content/33743517#None)
	  
	  [Choose Your Goal](https://readwise.io/reader/document_raw_content/33743517#None) ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gs4e1mew3d3fx7jwcrmbw9z4))
	- Certain goals put our lives at risk. These goals are set without regard to our circumstances and abilities. They pull us in the wrong direction. Rather than advancing our emotional and physical well-being, such goals blind us to dangers in their path. Take extreme diets, injury-causing sport, or sticking with an unhealthy relationship. Goals are powerful tools and, as such, they should be handled with care. We want to set powerful goals, but only after carefully considering whether they’re right for us. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gs4e5t2g9pcx66deftks5zdn))
	- Powerful goals have the ability to pull us toward our ultimate desires, energizing us to put in the work we need to do to get there. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gs4e69gnr1zpdam8w6f0fx9c))
	- When Alice asked, “Would you tell me, please, which way I ought to go from here?” the Cheshire Cat replied, “That depends a good deal on where you want to get to.”
	  
	  This quote from Lewis Carroll’s famous children’s book *Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland* reminds me of a popular exercise in my management class. Each year, I ask teams of business students to imagine that they’re passengers on a floatplane that has just crashed. Each team must decide which items to salvage from the plane to ensure that they’ll survive in the wild. There are two approaches my students could take: they could either choose items, like matches and an ax, that will allow them to set up camp and wait until help arrives; or they could choose items, like a compass and a navigation book, that would allow them to leave and search for help. Too often, teams jump into the task of sorting and selecting items without first deciding on their objective: take off or stay put. Not knowing their goal, they make decisions that contradict each other, resulting in an eclectic array of items that serve opposite purposes. In the end, they don’t get anywhere ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gs4ea2f6ebmywp9jaxcsakbw))
	- If you don’t select a goal to point you in a specific direction, you’re likely to move in circles. You’ll do whatever is at the forefront of your mind, even if it contradicts other actions you might have taken just moments ago. You might decide to go on a diet the same day you sign up for a macaron-making class, or you’ll open a savings account while also taking out a loan for a new car ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gs4earxh7nz5tr44r37ynj3b))
	- The goals we set are powerful motivational tools. A goal doesn’t just point you in a specific direction, it also pulls you in that direction. Once you set a goal, it mobilizes your resources toward achieving it. You’ll spend mental and physical effort, money, time, and your social capital ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gs4ebjb9pz3w27gg4570k62b))
	- Powerful goals feel worth the price tag—they pull you toward your greatest wish. And in order to pull you, a goal has to feel more like an aspiration and less like a chore. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gs4edgrm3hccjdykxksp1qsx))
	- Set goals, not means
	  
	  When it comes to setting a goal that feels like an aspiration and not a chore, the old adage to “keep your eyes on the prize” holds true. A powerful goal defines a desirable state, not the means to get there ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gs4eeaqgrskrc7bkqp1e2fyz))
	- because companies know we dislike paying for means, many online stores will include shipping costs in the product price, giving the impression that shipping is free ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gs4eh7fcwvy9x7p5hwcps21t))
	- When you’re setting goals, remember this lesson and choose to define the goal in terms of benefits rather than costs. It’s better to set your goal as “finding a job” rather than “applying for a job,” or as “owning a house” instead of “saving for a down payment.” Finding a job and owning a house are desirable outcomes. Filling out applications and saving for a down payment are the costly means needed to achieve these outcomes. Achieving a goal is exciting; completing the means is a chore. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gs4ej1p3rthcthpykyqxd225))
	- More abstract goals capture the purpose behind an action, describing what you’re trying to achieve rather than the actions you’ll take to achieve it. And while an abstract goal identifies the purpose of a goal, a concrete goal only identifies the path to get there; it’s a means.
	  
	  Cultivating an abstract mind-set while pursuing a goal can make any goal seem less like a chore ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gs4emps5486bsrz49bks39dt))
	- If you think about your day-to-day life in the abstract—that is, you focus on the purpose and meaning of your actions—your orientation toward specific goals will also be more abstract. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gs4en5a1gs942bq1mvq7cdp8))
	- There is, of course, a downside. When you make a goal *too* abstract, it becomes vague ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gs4eqfredd9fkzv3q8w3xpg0))
	- When there’s no clear path to get from point A to point B, people revert to fantasizing about their goals instead of taking action toward achieving them. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gs4er1zyxnb5fpqpky9kq6p6))
	- When we fantasize, we imagine what our lives will look like once we achieve our goal. We envision how great it will feel to wear that graduation gown, medal, or wedding dress. But fantasizing doesn’t generate action ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gs4erznz3zvx1gzh6k6kafh3))
	- when abstract goals become too abstract, they’re at risk of turning into fantasies that substitute for action ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gs4esqc8z90dfmh92gdfek7z))
	- Optimally abstract goals describe a purpose without losing sight of the actions you need to take to reach them (“improve my mental health” is better than “be happy”). You should immediately know what to do next (start therapy, for example). They allow you to contrast your current state with where you want to be so that you can connect the dots from here to there by making an action plan. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gs4et1xvfj6ksjd7x74t5y9f))
	- Just as framing your goal as a means or as too concrete is likely to make your goal feel like a chore, framing it as an anti-goal is likely to do the same. If you want to win your school’s championship basketball game, the “approach” frame of winning the game is more enticing than the “avoidance” frame of not losing the game. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gs4fb6h4zqtwqj13azjjbnfd))
	- Suppression is notoriously hard to do. The more you’re determined to not think about something, the more you’ll find yourself obsessing over it ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gs4fcqhtk7mx2cj2zf7aqrts))
	- While avoidance goals are more like chores, and therefore tend to be less powerful, they aren’t always ineffective in motivating action. For certain people and in certain situations, avoidance goals are effective ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gs4fdfv4fbksmpa74bz1c1kq))
	- Some people—let’s call them “approachers”—are particularly prone to responding more strongly to approach goals. When they play a game, they hope to win. In psychological terms, they have a strong Behavioral Approach System (BAS). Other people—let’s call them “avoiders”—can tolerate and be responsive to avoidance goals. When they play a game, they hope not to lose. Therefore, in psychological terms, they have a strong Behavioral Inhibition (or avoidance) System (BIS). To figure out whether you’re an approacher or an avoider, ask yourself whether you agree more with the statements “When I want something, I usually go all-out to get it” and “When I see an opportunity for something I like, I get excited right away” or the statements “I worry about making mistakes” and “Criticism or scolding hurts me quite a bit.” If you go all-out, you’re an approacher. If you fear mistakes and criticism, you’re an avoider. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gs4fexf6k3mzvze5x7m27277))
	- Sometimes, the situation determines whether people are focused on approach goals or avoidance goals. When people feel they’re in power, they’re more motivated by approach goals. So if you’re the boss, you probably want people to like you. This is an approach goal. But when you’re the intern, you want to make sure you’re not disliked. This is an avoidance goal. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gs4ffeyc679jq9txwgaf52hp))
	- For avoiders, or for those in situations that predispose us to avoid, avoidance goals work just fine at motivating action ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gs4ffxhs41abv5n22yk11wmw))
	- Avoidance goals are particularly powerful in the context of preventing harm and escaping danger. When motivating yourself to apply sunscreen, it feels right to set your goal as avoiding sunburn more than as approaching healthy skin. When motivating wearing a helmet, it feels right to set your goal as avoiding injury more than as keeping your skull intact. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gs4fgmstfz9s8k4dc39gjmf2))
	- In determining how to frame your goals, you could think about the “fit” (a notion that suggests that certain goals match certain orientations). For instance, safety goals fit the orientation of moving away from danger. In contrast, when you decide to start dating, it’s more fitting to set your goal as moving toward romance than as avoiding rejection. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gs4fh1ba173qarkka0a9bd4t))
	- Also, while approach goals are generally more exciting, avoidance goals have the advantage of seeming more urgent. To illustrate, try completing these sentences:
	  
	  A. “I must prevent [enter your response].”
	  
	  B. “I want to achieve [enter your response].”
	  
	  Now compare A to B. The upper, avoidance goal likely seems more urgent but less pleasant. The lower goal seems more pleasant and easier to stick with in the long run. So if you set your goal as “not losing,” you might believe it’s more urgent than if you set it as “winning.” You’ll respond more quickly to the not-losing goal, but you’d have more endurance in the long run to stick with your goal to win ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gs706e4yzgzs832af3d6rkk9))
- New highlights added [[2023-02-19]] at 11:06 PM
	- Questions to ask yourself
	  
	  Goals are powerful. Once they’re set, you’re eager to reach them. Your goals modify your behavior; they pull you. You should therefore not neglect to set your goals. But how you set your goals will determine their power. Your goals become less effective when, rather than feeling excited by them, you see them as chores. To set goals that aren’t chores, you can start by asking yourself the following questions:
	  
	  1.  Have you set your goals and are these the right goals for you? Do your goals fit the person you are and are they the best for the person you hope to become? You want to get the content of your goals right.
	  2.  How do you define your goals to yourself? Can you make them feel more exciting by focusing on what you’re trying to achieve, rather than on the means you take to get there?
	  3.  Are your goals optimally abstract so that you don’t lose sight of where you’re going as well as exactly how you’ll get there?
	  4.  Can you define your goals in terms of approaching a state of physical and mental comfort instead of avoiding an undesirable state of discomfort? You’ll likely be more motivated with an approach goal, though you might feel it’s more urgent to avoid an anti-goal. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gspeqzrxgvbwf3m4n580fswe))