title:: How to Improve Your Business Writing (highlights)
author:: [[Carolyn O’Hara]]
full-title:: "How to Improve Your Business Writing"
media:: #articles
url:: https://hbr.org/2014/11/how-to-improve-your-business-writing

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[2022-12-20]]
	- **Think before you write  
	  **Before you put pen to paper or hands to keyboard, consider what you want to say. “The mistake that many people make is they start writing prematurely,” says Garner. “They work out the thoughts as they’re writing, which makes their writing less structured, meandering, and repetitive.” Ask yourself: What should my audience know or think after reading this email, proposal, or report? If the answer isn’t immediately clear, you’re moving too quickly. “Step back and spend more time collecting your thoughts,” Blackburn advises. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gmnxx40na9bk1q4pmr708z0z))
	- **Be direct  
	  **Make your point right up front. Many people find that the writing style and structure they developed in school doesn’t work as well in the business world. “One of the great diseases of business writing is postponing the message to the middle part of the writing,” says Garner. By succinctly presenting your main idea first, you save your reader time and sharpen your argument before diving into the bulk of your writing. When writing longer memos and proposals, Garner suggests stating the issue and proposed solution in “no more than 150 words” at the top of the first page. “Acquire a knack for summarizing,” he says. “If your opener is no good, then the whole piece of writing will be no good.” ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gmnxy0ch7jzm0hbf5m60yb2s))
	- **Cut the fat  
	  **Don’t “use three words when one would do,” says Blackburn. Read your writing through critical eyes, and make sure that each word works toward your larger point. Cut every unnecessary word or sentence. There’s no need to say “general consensus of opinion,” for instance, when “consensus” will do. “The minute readers feel that a piece of writing is verbose they start tuning out,” says Garner. He suggests deleting prepositions (*point of view* becomes *viewpoint*); replacing *–ion* words with action verbs (*provided protection to* becomes *protected*); using contractions (*don’t* instead of *do not* and *we’re* instead of *we are*); and swapping *is, are, was* and *were* with stronger verbs (*indicates* rather than *is indicative of*). ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gmnxzqfn34md1n15hxtzmvy7))
	- **Avoid jargon and $10 words  
	  **Business writing is full of industry-specific buzzwords and acronyms. And while these terms are sometimes unavoidable and can occasionally be helpful as shorthand, they often indicate lazy or cluttered thinking. Throw in too many, and your reader will assume you are on autopilot — or worse, not understand what you’re saying. “Jargon doesn’t add any value,” says Blackburn, but “clarity and conciseness never go out of style.” Garner suggests creating a “[buzzword blacklist](https://hbr.org/2013/03/a-bizspeak-blacklist/)” of words to avoid, including terms like “actionable,” “core competency,” “impactful,” and “incentivize.” You should also avoid using grandiose language. Writers often mistakenly believe using a big word when a simple one will do is a sign of intelligence. It’s not ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gmny2djca2nmq65zwd9fa6qg))
	- **Read what you write  
	  **Put yourself in your reader’s shoes. Is your point clear and well structured? Are the sentences straightforward and concise? Blackburn suggests reading passages out loud. “That’s where those flaws reveal themselves: the gaps in your arguments, the clunky sentence, the section that’s two paragraphs too long,” she says. And don’t be afraid to ask a colleague or friend — or better yet, several colleagues and friends — to edit your work. Welcome their feedback; don’t resent it. “Editing is an act of friendship,” says Garner. “It is not an act of aggression.” ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gmny3xh98t6kyt175ka9c6kx))
	- **Practice every day  
	  **“Writing is a skill,” says Blackburn, “and skills improve with practice.” Garner suggests reading well-written material every day, and being attentive to word choice, sentence structure, and flow. “Start paying attention to the style of *The Wall Street Journal*,” he says. Invest in a guide to style and grammar for reference — Garner recommends [*Fowler’s Modern English Usage*](http://www.amazon.com/Fowlers-Modern-English-Usage-Burchfield/dp/0198610211). Most importantly, build time into your schedule for editing and revising. “Writing and reworking your own writing is where the change happens, and it’s not quick,” says Blackburn. “The time is well spent because good writers distinguish themselves on the job.” ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gmny51q4mx5hmqgp6qqv3dc5))
	- With legal or academic writing, “you’re going to generally start with building up the case, and put the main point all the way at the end,” he says. “But in business communications, it’s best to start with your conclusion first.” ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gmny5r7y2vjvc1gtadhbbeb5))
	- Tim Glowa had already built a successful career as a strategic marketing consultant when he decided to set his ambitions a little higher. “I wanted to be perceived as a thought leader,” Tim says, “and to do that, I needed to have a point of view and I needed to put that point of view out in public. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gmny6x5jh24n5kr8vpfg97ja))
	- His writing was already well received by colleagues and peers but much of his experience was rooted in academic writing. So he began reading business publications, like *McKinsey Quarterly,* for style. “I studied how they communicate,” Tim says, “and made an effort to make my own writing more direct and concise.”
	  
	  He also incorporated an outlining ritual into his writing. Before writing reports and memos, he now begins with a short outline of the three main objectives. “You can’t just start typing and expect to go somewhere,” he says. “That’s like going for a walk and not knowing where the destination is.” ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gmny7kbqjyjer981hsnrwctx))