title:: How to Gain a Competitive Advantage on Customer Insights (highlights)
author:: [[Ian Kahn, Paul Leinwand, Mahadeva Matt Mani]]
full-title:: "How to Gain a Competitive Advantage on Customer Insights"
media:: #articles
status:: #📥inbox 
url:: https://hbr.org/2022/10/how-to-gain-a-competitive-advantage-on-customer-insights?ref=refind

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[2023\-07\-02]]
	- Unlike market research, privileged insights provide intel on your customers’ real needs, desires, and experiences. These insights can be gained in a variety of ways. Generally, it requires engaging with customers in ways that directly build trust and value. This might include offering services and solutions that go beyond products, creating a more robust and engaging customer service experience, integrating customers into product and service development, and observing and interacting with customers while they use your products. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h4cxq1csk4dyd8c22w75b7vv))
- New highlights added [[2023\-07\-02]] at 11:58 PM
	- Establish a foundation of trust and value
	  
	  Be clear about how you earn customers’ trust to engage with you, and the benefit they gain from doing so. This goes to the heart of how customers trust you to consistently deliver outcomes they value. Customers that see their lives or businesses intrinsically linked and improved because of what you offer are much more likely to engage with you and more willing to exchange unique information and insight into their core needs and challenges. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h4cxrn1h39bsts8x8r535kyj))
	- Wire your privileged insights into how you work
	  
	  Put your privileged insights to work by connecting them into your operations — changing structures, processes, incentives, metrics, information flows, etc., to enable every part of the business to make decisions that are based on your unique insights. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h4cxx0ph5jfkd9e7ypzpr9fd))
	- The most obvious (though not always well\-executed) example of this involves wiring privileged insights into your company’s innovation process, by using them as the basis for ideation and looking for many ways in which customers can be integrated in the actual development process (for example, in beta pilots). But privileged insights need to be linked to many areas beyond innovation, including the determination of investments in tools and technologies that facilitate ongoing experiences, the interaction of your selling and customer teams, and your forecasting and strategic planning. Be prepared for those insights to materially change the fundamentals of your business, not just lead to incremental changes or a new feature in some of your products. And rethink how you measure the impact of your privileged insights capability; the metrics that most companies use today don’t go nearly far enough, and more innovative measures like, for example, return on experience (RoX), should be considered by companies pursuing this capability. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h4cxwwych1he4twkzvj0bp1n))
	- The power of a privileged insights system stems from its self\-reinforcing nature: The more customers trust your company and derive value from the your products and services, the more likely they are to open up and engage with you. The more they do so, the more insights you’ll be able to gain about what customers want and need; and the more insights you have and the better you are at wiring those insights into everything you do, the more you can improve your customer experience, products, and services and build additional trust and connection with customers. It’s a true flywheel. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h4cxzk2cnphx4hqryz050bqa))
	- For the flywheel to work and fuel your company’s success, you need to work on all three of these areas, starting with a brutally honest assessment of the real gaps you may have across each area and realizing that creating a system of privileged insights will not come without meaningful transformation. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h4cxz24g4j5z04dbz7p98exp))