title:: How Apple Is Organized for Innovation (highlights)
author:: [[Harvard Business Review]]
full-title:: "How Apple Is Organized for Innovation"
media:: #articles
status:: #📥inbox 
url:: https://web.archive.org/web/20230101114411/https://hbr.org/2020/11/how-apple-is-organized-for-innovation

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[2023-07-13]]
	- When Jobs arrived back at Apple, it had a conventional structure for a company of its size and scope. It was divided into business units, each with its own P&L responsibilities. General managers ran the Macintosh products group, the information appliances division, and the server products division, among others. [As is often the case with decentralized business units](https://web.archive.org/web/20230101114411/https://hbr.org/2017/12/when-to-decentralize-decision-making-and-when-not-to), managers were inclined to fight with one another, over transfer prices in particular. Believing that conventional management had stifled innovation, Jobs, in his first year returning as CEO, laid off the general managers of all the business units (in a single day), put the entire company under one P&L, and combined the disparate functional departments of the business units into one functional organization.
	  
	  ![Apple’s Functional Organization. In 1997, when Steve Jobs returned to Apple, it had a conventional structure for its size and scope. It was divided into business units, each with its own P&L responsibilities. After retaking the helm, Jobs put the entire company under one P&L and combined the disparate departments of the business units into one functional organization that aligns expertise with decision rights—a structure Apple retains to this day. Two organization charts show how Apple’s structure changed from 1998 to 2019. In 1998 the business units reporting to the CEO, each of which had its own P&L, were hardware, software, marketing, operations, services and support, sales, finance, and legal. In 2019, when the entire company was under one P&L, the departments reporting to the CEO were design, hardware engineering, hardware technologies, software, services, machine learning and AI, marketing, marketing communications, operations, sales, retail, people, finance, legal, corporate communications, environment, policy and social, and corporate development.](https://web.archive.org/web/20230101114411im_/https://hbr.org/resources/images/article_assets/2020/10/R2006F_POLODNY_ORGANIZATION.png)
	  
	  [See more HBR charts in Data & Visuals](https://web.archive.org/web/20230101114411/https://www.hbr.org/data-visuals)
	  
	  The adoption of a functional structure may have been unsurprising for a company of Apple’s size at the time. What *is* surprising—in fact, remarkable—is that Apple retains it today, even though the company is nearly 40 times as large in terms of revenue and far more complex than it was in 1998. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h56vpmgsb71ywdpkvd4f05vq))
	- [As is often the case with decentralized business units](https://web.archive.org/web/20230101114411/https://hbr.org/2017/12/when-to-decentralize-decision-making-and-when-not-to), managers were inclined to fight with one another, over transfer prices in particular. Believing that conventional management had stifled innovation, Jobs, in his first year returning as CEO, laid off the general managers of all the business units (in a single day), put the entire company under one P&L, and combined the disparate functional departments of the business units into one functional organization. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h56vcf74begsvwaefyejccy8))
		- **Note**: What data or experience inform Steve Jobs of this restructuring of Apple?
- New highlights added [[2023-07-19]] at 2:21 AM
	- Business history and organizational theory make the case that as [entrepreneurial firms grow large and complex](https://web.archive.org/web/20230101114411/https://hbr.org/2016/12/when-large-companies-are-better-at-entrepreneurship-than-startups), they must shift from a functional to a multidivisional structure to align accountability and control and prevent the congestion that occurs when countless decisions flow up the org chart to the very top. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h5p7cpy2sctkjxn92vx72gjc))
	- By the latter half of the century the vast majority of large corporations had followed suit. Apple proves that this conventional approach is not necessary and that the functional structure may benefit companies facing tremendous technological change and industry upheaval. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h5p7cx9q9300gbrxzr1dnyc4))
	- To create such innovations, Apple relies on a structure that centers on functional expertise. Its fundamental belief is that those with the most expertise and experience in a domain should have decision rights for that domain. This is based on two views: First, Apple competes in markets where the rates of technological change and disruption are high, so it must rely on the judgment and intuition of people with deep knowledge of the technologies responsible for disruption. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h5p7ekv2fnd1872g54b20vfh))
		- **Note**: This is a case for functional organization over multi-divisional orgs.
	- Long before it can get market feedback and solid market forecasts, the company must make bets about which technologies and designs are likely to succeed in smartphones, computers, and so on. Relying on technical experts rather than general managers increases the odds that those bets will pay off. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h5p7gy7pbcfhscjbqqh0qtv8))
		- **Note**: General managers are not as capable as expert in making decisions over technology if they are not well read or verse in the topic.
	- Second, Apple’s commitment to offer the best possible products would be undercut if short-term profit and cost targets were the overriding criteria for judging investments and leaders. Significantly, the bonuses of senior R&D executives are based on companywide performance numbers rather than the costs of or revenue from particular products. Thus product decisions are somewhat insulated from short-term financial pressures. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h5p7km672ce6wg2p24w15xp8))
		- **Note**: By giving leadership positions to domain experts, the usual measures of success--short-term profits and cost targets--is removed as blockers to long term planning for a quality product.
	- It’s easier to get the balance right between an attention to costs and the value added to the user experience when the leaders making decisions are those with deep expertise in their areas rather than general managers being held accountable primarily for meeting numerical targets. Whereas the fundamental principle of a conventional business unit structure is to align accountability and control, the fundamental principle of a functional organization is to align expertise and decision rights. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h5p7q7yjz9gq6rpwqpdafxk2))
	- Ever since Steve Jobs implemented the functional organization, Apple’s managers at every level, from senior vice president on down, have been expected to possess three key leadership characteristics: deep expertise that allows them to meaningfully engage in all the work being done within their individual functions; immersion in the details of those functions; and a willingness to collaboratively debate other functions during collective decision-making. When managers have these attributes, decisions are made in a coordinated fashion by the people most qualified to make them. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h5p9w9fps3z2m3yqsr8fzjek))
		- **Note**: Decision makers should have deep expertise in the domains they are making decisions in.
	- Apple is not a company where general managers oversee managers; rather, it is a company where experts lead experts. The assumption is that it’s easier to train an expert to manage well than to train a manager to be an expert. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h5pa2rbcdm55dskqwzhg9v4k))
	- At Apple, hardware experts manage hardware, software experts software, and so on. (Deviations from this principle are rare.) This approach cascades down all levels of the organization through areas of ever-increasing specialization. Apple’s leaders believe that world-class talent wants to work for and with other world-class talent in a specialty. It’s like joining a sports team where you get to learn from and play with the best. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h5pa42k512s7dhdaen8whdsz))
	- Early on, Steve Jobs came to embrace the idea that managers at Apple should be experts in their area of management. In a 1984 interview he said, “We went through that stage in Apple where we went out and thought, *Oh, we’re gonna be a big company, let’s hire professional management.* We went out and hired a bunch of professional management. It didn’t work at all….They knew how to manage, but they didn’t know how to *do* anything. If you’re a great person, why do you want to work for somebody you can’t learn anything from? And you know what’s interesting? You know who the best managers are? They are the great individual contributors who never, ever want to be a manager but decide they have to be…because no one else is going to…do as good a job.” ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h5pa53gycpfe98d93c53p90b))
	- Immersion in the details.
	  
	  One principle that permeates Apple is “Leaders should know the details of their organization three levels down,” because that is essential for speedy and effective cross-functional decision-making at the highest levels. If managers attend a decision-making meeting without the details at their disposal, the decision must either be made without the details or postponed. Managers tell war stories about making presentations to senior leaders who drill down into cells on a spreadsheet, lines of code, or a test result on a product. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h5pa85c91vekfcnhwx04h7j0))
	- Of course, the leaders of many companies insist that they and their teams are steeped in the details. But few organizations match Apple. Consider how its senior leaders pay extreme attention to the exact shape of products’ rounded corners. The standard method for rounding corners is to use an arc of a circle to connect the perpendicular sides of a rectangular object, which produces a somewhat abrupt transition from straight to curve. In contrast, Apple’s leaders insist on continuous curves, resulting in a shape known in the design community as a “squircle”: The slope starts sooner but is less abrupt. An advantage of hardware products without abrupt changes in curvature is that they produce softer highlights (that is, little to no jump in light reflection along the corner). The difference is subtle, and executing on it isn’t simply a matter of a more complicated mathematical formula. It demands that Apple’s operations leaders commit to extremely precise manufacturing tolerances to produce millions of iPhones and other products with squircles. This deep immersion in detail isn’t just a concern that is pushed down to lower-level people; it is central at the leadership level. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h5paajzmb1gxkpdsk6bj1nwq))
		- **Note**: How can we inject detail orientedness in our work and balance solving problems in our organization.
	- Having leaders who are experts in their areas and can go deep into the details has profound implications for how Apple is run. Leaders can push, probe, and “smell” an issue. They know which details are important and where to focus their attention. Many people at Apple see it as liberating, even exhilarating, to work for experts, who provide better guidance and mentoring than a general manager would. Together, all can strive to do the best work of their lives in their chosen area. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h5pbyr8e5jjsqyg83a4nc8eh))
	- Willingness to collaboratively debate.
	  
	  Apple has hundreds of specialist teams across the company, dozens of which may be needed for even one key component of a new product offering. For example, the dual-lens camera with portrait mode required the collaboration of no fewer than 40 specialist teams: silicon design, camera software, reliability engineering, motion sensor hardware, video engineering, core motion, and camera sensor design, to name just a few. How on earth does Apple develop and ship products that require such coordination? The answer is collaborative debate. Because no function is responsible for a product or a service on its own, cross-functional collaboration is crucial. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h5pc26fq50f6gz40hr3pyfs1))
- New highlights added [[2023-07-19]] at 12:23 PM
	- However, given Apple’s size and scope, even the executive team can resolve only a limited number of stalemates. The many horizontal dependencies mean that ineffective peer relationships at the VP and director levels have the potential to undermine not only particular projects but the entire company. Consequently, for people to attain and remain in a leadership position within a function, they must be highly effective collaborators. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h5qenkm6721n2fmqn47ftf0b))
- New highlights added [[2023-07-19]] at 1:23 PM
	- But for the team, sidestepping rare or extreme situations—what engineers call *corner cases*—would violate Apple’s strict engineering standard of zero “artifacts,” meaning “any undesired or unintended alteration in data introduced in a digital process by an involved technique and/or technology.” ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h5qfzge6zsgnntypvw0vm3ja))
	- While Townsend is accountable for how great the camera is, he needed dozens of other teams—each of which had a long list of its own commitments—to contribute their time and effort to the portrait mode project. At Apple that’s known as *accountability without control:* You’re accountable for making the project succeed even though you don’t control all the other teams. This process can be messy yet produce great results. “Good mess” happens when various teams work with a shared purpose, as in the case of the portrait mode project. “Bad mess” occurs when teams push their own agendas ahead of common goals. Those who become associated with bad mess and don’t or can’t change their behavior are removed from leadership positions, if not from Apple altogether. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h5qgk9nrgktqp4mx7cpbs70f))
	- As the company has grown, entering new markets and moving into new technologies, its functional structure and leadership model have had to evolve. Deciding how to organize areas of expertise to best enable collaboration and rapid decision-making has been an important responsibility of the CEO. The adjustments Tim Cook has implemented in recent years include dividing the hardware function into hardware engineering and hardware technologies; [adding artificial intelligence](https://web.archive.org/web/20230101114411/https://hbr.org/2020/01/competing-in-the-age-of-ai) and machine learning as a functional area; and moving human interface out of software to merge it with industrial design, creating an integrated design function. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h5qgma4wyekdnbksjncbzv4s))
		- **Note**: How do CEOs make intelligent and informed organization design decisions?
	- Another challenge posed by organizational growth is the pressure it imposes on the several hundred VPs and directors below the executive team. If Apple were to cap the size or scope of a senior leader’s organization to limit the number and breadth of details that the leader is expected to own, the company would need to hugely expand the number of senior leaders, making the kind of collaboration that has worked so well impossible to preserve. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h5qj10f13b889zp9dgxqh6jg))
	- Cognizant of this problem, Apple has been quite disciplined about limiting the number of senior positions to minimize how many leaders must be involved in any cross-functional activity. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h5qj16sjcvsz3spbmby8nc3h))
	- many Apple managers over the past five years or so have been evolving the leadership approach described above: experts leading experts, immersion in the details, and collaborative debate. We have codified these adaptions in what we call the *discretionary leadership* model, which we have incorporated into a new educational program for Apple’s VPs and directors. Its purpose is to address the challenge of getting this leadership approach to drive innovation in all areas of the company, not just product development, at an ever-greater scale. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h5qj23nr72qarvmwnekqzxps))
	- When Apple was smaller, it may have been reasonable to expect leaders to be experts on and immersed in the details of pretty much everything going on in their organizations. However, they now need to exercise greater discretion regarding where and how they spend their time and efforts. They must decide which activities demand their full attention to detail because those activities create the most value for Apple. Some of those will fall within their existing core expertise (what they still need to *own*), and some will require them to *learn* new areas of expertise. Activities that require less attention from the leader can be pushed down to others (and the leaders will either *teach* others or *delegate* in cases where they aren’t experts). ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h5qj2tnhs969zfpeaym4f9s4))
	- Rosner, the VP of applications, provides a good example. Like many other Apple managers, he has had to contend with three challenges arising from Apple’s tremendous growth. First, the *size* of his function has exploded over the past decade in terms of both head count (from 150 to about 1,000) and the number of projects under way at any given time. Clearly, he cannot dive into all the details of all those projects. Second, the *scope* of his portfolio has widened: Over the past 10 years he has assumed responsibility for new applications, including News, Clips (video editing), Books, and Final Cut Pro (advanced video editing). Although apps are his core area of expertise, some aspects of these—among them editorial content for News, how book publishing works, and video editing—involve matters in which Rosner is not an expert. Finally, as Apple’s product portfolio and number of projects have expanded, even more coordination with other functions is required, increasing the *complexity* of collaborating across the many units. For instance, whereas Rosner is responsible for the engineering side of News, other managers oversee the operating system on which it depends, the content, and the business relationships with content creators (such as the New York Times) and advertisers. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h5qj91t2f53yab2hhf2hpk7k))
		- **Note**: How do we balance project knowledge to process improvements that benefit the whole organization---especially proactive work.
	- To cope, Rosner has adapted his role. As an expert who leads other experts, he had been immersed in details—especially those concerning the top-level aspects of software applications and their architecture that affect how users engage with the software. He also collaborated with managers across the company in projects that involved those areas. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h5qjfnavy08snptgp63k8zhf))
	- The second challenge for Rosner involved the addition of activities beyond his original expertise. Six years ago he was given responsibility for the engineering and design of News. Consequently, he had to learn about publishing news content via an app—to understand news publications, digital advertising, machine learning to personalize news content, architecting for privacy, and how to incentivize publishers. Thus some of his work fell into the *learning* box. Here managers face a steep learning curve to acquire new skills. Given how demanding this is, only critical new activities should fall into this category. Over six years of intense learning, Rosner has mastered some of these areas, which are now in his owning box. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h5qjn55p6mcq0d9enzsd09n4))
	- As long as a particular activity remains in the learning box, leaders must adopt a beginner’s mindset, questioning subordinates in a way that suggests they don’t already know the answer (because they don’t). This differs starkly from the way leaders question subordinates about activities in the owning and teaching boxes.
	  
	  Finally, Rosner has delegated some areas—including iMovie and GarageBand, in which he is not an expert—to people with the requisite capabilities. For activities in the *delegating* box, he assembles teams, agrees on objectives, monitors and reviews progress, and holds the teams accountable: the stuff of general management. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h5qjnmk88mys9btxzsrd29xw))
	- Whereas Apple’s VPs spend most of their time in the owning and learning boxes, general managers at other companies tend to spend most of their time in the delegating box. Rosner estimates that he spends about 40% of his time on activities he owns (including collaboration with others in a given area), about 30% on learning, about 15% on teaching, and about 15% on delegating. These numbers vary by manager, of course, depending on their business and the needs at a given time. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h5qjp50wp1yhbwe1edkwtd5g))
- New highlights added [[2023-07-19]] at 2:20 PM
	- Apple’s functional organization is rare, if not unique, among very large companies. It flies in the face of prevailing management theory that companies should be reorganized into divisions and business units as they become large. But something vital gets lost in a shift to business units: the alignment of decision rights with expertise. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h5qjz7r00tgrex2jf7r35w7n))
		- **Note**: What are the necessary prerequisites that enables Apple to successfully design a structure like this? Great employees that are experts. Motivated employees who are willing to learn new skills and topics?
	- Why do companies so often cling to having general managers in charge of business units? One reason, we believe, is that making the change is difficult. It entails overcoming inertia, reallocating power among managers, changing an individual-oriented incentive system, and learning new ways of collaborating. That is daunting when a company already faces huge external challenges. An intermediate step may be to cultivate the experts-leading-experts model even within a business unit structure. For example, when filling the next senior management role, pick someone with deep expertise in that area as opposed to someone who might make the best general manager. But a full-fledged transformation requires that leaders also transition to a functional organization. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h5qk53sbajq7taqv4rweetq6))