title:: How Note Taking Can Help You Become an Expert (highlights)
author:: [[Cedric Chin]]
full-title:: "How Note Taking Can Help You Become an Expert"
media:: #articles
url:: https://commoncog.com/how-note-taking-can-help-you-become-an-expert/

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[2023-02-26]]
	- Idea One: CFT is Concerned With Ill-Structured Domains
	  
	  The key domain feature that CFT grapples with is something that the authors call an ill-structured domain. An ill-structured domain is a domain where there are concepts, but the way those concepts are instantiated in the real world are hugely variable, and messy as hell. As a result, most cases that practitioners deal with in an ill-structured domain will be novel. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt8hknb182x2ntcfa7ges2nc))
	- For instance, think about heart attacks. A heart attack is a concept. It is a thing you can study in medical textbooks. But actual diagnosis of heart attacks can be *hugely* variable — it depends on the patient’s race, age, gender, case history, potential complications, and so on; some heart attacks present as indigestion initially, others may last *days* ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt8hm1q15mhb558fnmsztw77))
	- To wrap up, the formal definition for ‘ill-structured’ is “concept instantiation is highly variable for cases of the same nominal type”. If you think about your domain for a bit, you’d probably realise that some parts are ill-structured, while others are not — for instance, in software, computer programming is well-structured but software project planning, software design, timeline estimation and security event mitigation are rather ill-structured. Hell, if you think about any career or any industry, you’d probably realise that important aspects of it are ill-structured. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt8hy5ceccr9xazn3jqw43ce))
	- Idea Two: In Ill-Structured Domains, Cases Are As If Not More Important Than Concepts ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt8hyh1n4c9e0edt22kfqgrq))
	- CFT asserts that due to this nature of ill-structured domains, cases are *as* if not *more* important than concepts. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt8hytwmp9psc3mqavc9sekf))
	- for those of us who have STEM backgrounds — where we are taught that principles are *everything*. This is why, for instance, you’ll see engineers evaluating quality of thinking with a dismissive “you’re not thinking from first principles” — the assumption being, of course, that reductive reasoning (that is, breaking things down to root issues) and principled logic are paramount in any real world analysis. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt8hzz9yja9jpda6a05p3dsq))
	- this is *also* the way that I was trained to think and argue — and perhaps the way that many management consultant-types are trained to think and argue: you make an assertion, back it up with some reasoning, and then give one or two illustrative examples, keeping in mind that you may drop the examples if you run out of time ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt8j0j5sykdkf85p1915cmqh))
	- But CFT challenges this view. It points out that if concept instantiations are highly variable in an ill-structured domain, then reasoning from first principles is *very difficult*.
	  
	  How do we know this? I mentioned earlier that CFT comes from the study of accelerating medical expertise. Multiple precursor studies that led to CFT show us that:
	  
	  1.  Journeymen doctors are unable to identify cases when they are taught the concept alone.
	  2.  They are *not* able to go from symptom presentation back up to the concept and mechanism of disease.
	  3.  There is this tendency for novices to cling to the generalised lessons from *one* case, and then struggle when presented with a concept instantiation that is very different from the prototypical case they hold in their heads.
	  4.  And indeed, experts in ill-structured domains reason by comparison to previous cases, *not* by reference to first principles. (Source: see citations in the [original CFT paper](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/272177675_Cognitive_Flexibility_Theory_Advanced_Knowledge_Acquisition_in_Ill-Structured_Domains)) ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt8j34bqmc89s597411m10kb))
	- The truth is that you *can’t* easily reduce cases in ill-structured domains into generalisable principles. You often have to treat the case as its whole thing. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt8j86tjb5qrvp5cm03sv7bv))
	- Ideas Three and Four: The Two Claims of CFT
	  
	  CFT makes two central claims. How do experts deal with novelty in ill-structured domains? In other words, what lies at the heart of adaptive expertise? CFT tells us that experts do two things:
	  
	  1.  They construct a temporary schema on the fly, by combining *fragments* of previous cases.
	  2.  They have something the authors call an ‘adaptive worldview’: meaning that they do not think there is one root cause or one framework or one model as explanation for a particular event that they observe in their domain. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt8jjqhkzx2zwzrj4c056fjt))
	- When you or I (that is, non-doctors) think of a heart attack, we probably imagine a *prototype* of a heart attack in our heads. That is, we imagine what we think is an ‘ideal’ heart attack, where a person falls over and clutches his or her chest. Expert doctors *do not do this*. They do not reduce a concept like heart attack to just one prototype. They instead have a *collection* of prototypes in their heads, that they can assemble fragments from. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt8jkaawe4fknndw6fnxstc1))
	- What an adaptive worldview means is that whenever you learn a new concept in an ill-structured domain, you know *not* to oversimplify — that is, to represent it as a single principle or concept. *You do not try to reduce*. You instead know to search for new, different cases in order to collect a cluster of prototypes in your head, and let that cluster inform your understanding of the concept. If you encounter a new case, *you update the concept*, because the concept is only useful when you know how it is instantiated in reality. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt8jvxxtmnh9padjqh2z1d9v))
- New highlights added [[2023-02-27]] at 12:42 AM
	- Experts in ill-structured domains) … pay attention to cases in the variegated richness while de-emphasising the primacy of concepts (which serve a needed subsidiary function to cases in ill-structured domains); use multiple rather than single conceptual relations (as in schemas, prototypes, analogies, perspectives, etc); treat cases as wholes with emergent properties so they are greater than the sum of their parts; increase the attunement to difference and decrease the bias toward seeing similarity; expect unpredictability, irregularity, contingency, indeterminateness; expect to return to earlier cases in new contexts to bring out facets that were hidden in the earlier context — *nonlinear* revisiting is not repeating; embrace flexibility and openness of knowledge representation over rigidity; stress context dependency over context independence; avoid rigidity in understanding, remaining *open* instead, with an appreciation for the sometimes limitless range of uses of knowledge in new combinations, for new purposes, in new situations; rely on situation-adaptive assembly of prior knowledge and experience rather than retrieval of intact knowledge structures and procedures from long-term memory … *(taken from page 962, The Oxford Handbook of Expertise)* ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt8jx76kwyntybvzzcaq9edq))
	- Using Cognitive Flexibility Theory
	  
	  Now that we have the four big ideas of CFT, we can turn to the actionable question: *“how do we use this?”* The answer is that we take the two claims of the theory and invert them to get the pedagogical recommendations:
	  
	  1.  You want to expose the student to as many cases for each concept as is feasibly possible, so they have a large collection of fragments to assemble from.
	  2.  You want to inculcate the adaptive worldview. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt8jy5s0r0esd2xpp5w31rja))
	- **Step One:** Pick a note taking app with *backlinking capabilities* ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt8k6tqj2vdmfkp2x3bmc8hn))
	- **Step Two:** Start copying cases into your note taking app, perhaps from articles, PDFs, books or blog posts. Mark up particular passages with **concepts** or **case features** that you observe. As you do so, split up the passages into smaller segments, that will hopefully show up in your backlink interface.
	  
	  The purpose of the segmentation is so that you may just grok a part of a full case when you are doing revision. You shouldn’t need to reread the full case if you are doing a conceptual search on your notes — so fragments are important.
	  
	  This highlighting and segmenting bit is a bit tricky, because proper CFT learning systems ask expert practitioners to mark up cases for students. Presumably, as a novice learner, you’re going to miss certain concept instantiations or cues that an expert would catch. But I think this is ok — this is the best that one can do when you’re creating a CFT system for yourself. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt8k7fxkwtwt5we53vwd30x7))
	- Do not worry so much about breaking up the cases the ‘right way’ — the researchers stress that there is no one ‘right way’ to turn cases into fragments. (In fact, they say “even dividing at convenient seams work roughly as well” — it’s really up to you!) What you *shouldn’t* do, though, is to attempt to organise cases into clearly defined, homogenous stages — which people tend to do when there is a temporal element to a domain, for instance the presentation of symptoms in a patient’s case history over time. This is because cases in ill-structured domains can differ even if *most* cases follow the same underlying progression or structure! ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt8kbyj2s969wkfdharp8ddf))
	- How do you find cases to add? The researchers recommend starting with ‘crossroad cases’, that is — cases ‘rich with conceptual features that are crucial to the domain’ and together ‘could even be considered *emblematic* of the domain’. The researchers recommend a starting set of 10-20 such cases — in fact, *all* CFT learning systems come preloaded with a collection of 10-20 crossroad cases ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt8m44r1rdeb0tjagxhgs8h2))
	- This in turn means that you must look for initial cases that are *as different as possible from the ones you currently have*. And it means that you should continue looking out for such rich cases until you reach diminishing returns, where your core collection of crossroad cases may be said to be representative of the problem domain. So for instance, if you’re creating a learning system for heart attacks, you’ll want to have 10-20 cases that represent the most important variations from real world diagnostic practice. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt8m4h9rr5zw5q83gqqtrh49))
	- As far as I can tell, CFT learning systems work through two modes, both of which are expressions of ‘combinatorial idea play’:
	  
	  1.  You give the student access to a CFT learning system, and then present them with a series of tasks to do (I imagine this as a doctor being presented with a series of increasingly difficult cases — “Male, 63, found at the bottom of a flight of stairs with multiple contusions …”, and evaluated using diagnostic questions). The CFT learning system is their reference; their job is to do a concept search across the entire case library until they find the relevant fragments and give their best guess answer.
	  2.  You get the student to do multiple case contrasts, in order to build complex understanding more rapidly. How you encourage this: you give them a series of questions like “how is Case A like Case B but not like Case C” and “find surprising *differences* between cases that appear similar, and find surprising *similarities* between cases that appear different on the surface” and so on — thus reflecting the nuances of expert understanding. A variant of this is to see how what is most important about a previous case changes in the context of other new cases (one mantra of CFT is that “revisiting is not repeating”) ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt8m5596jt6y2j0z9ra7ap7b))
- New highlights added [[2023-02-28]] at 10:36 PM
	- As a student engages with a CFT learning system, they will encounter the richest 10-20 cases again and again. In other words, as they jump from case to case, they will likely criss-cross the same richest cases during their system traversal (hence the name ‘crossroads’ cases!) Recall that such cases are chosen because they are ‘emblematic’ of the domain. This produces three things:
	  
	  1.  The crossroad cases will quickly become the most analysed — meaning that the student will, as part of their tasks, unpack a crossroad case in as many ways as possible, producing deep learning for that case and internalising that cases are complex and a case is not just a case of one thing, but has many possible ‘titles’ — that is, cases in ill-structured domains are cases of *many* things.
	  2.  Second, as crossroad cases are reused in new contexts, they quickly become ‘overlearned’. What this means is that a student will become *so* familiar with the crossroad case that even reading a small fragment of it will evoke the rest of the case, cognitively bringing the entire case history ‘along for the ride’. The researchers call the small distinctive fragments ‘epitomés’, and they call this stage ‘epitomé mode’. Once epitomé mode is reached, case combination and case contrasts can be done at the speed of thought. Effectively, this also means that the student has a set of cases stored in their memories available for invocation and assembly — just like a more experienced practitioner would!
	  3.  Finally, crossroad cases are powerful because they promote connection building between many concept instantiations. This is mostly done through the ‘case contrast’ method we covered above — each crossroad case is treated as a hub, and the student is asked to find as many connected cases on as many conceptual dimensions as possible (the spokes). Then a new crossroad case is selected as a hub, and the student repeats the process. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gta8mmzm5tncs49yhxtdecn4))