title:: How to Be Less Distracted at Work – And in Life | HBR IdeaCast (highlights)
author:: [[Harvard Business Review]]
full-title:: "How to Be Less Distracted at Work – And in Life | HBR IdeaCast"
media:: #articles
status:: #📥inbox 
url:: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TvV7HJLkkQw
tags:: #[[distraction]] #[[procrastination]] #[[productivity]]

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[2023\-07\-03]]
	- And email feels worky. Isn't email productive? That's a work-type thing to do that you've got to get done anyway, right? Well, not really because if we only do the things that are urgent and we don't get to the things that are just as important but may require some longer-term planning, the things that we keep putting off day after day, we don't get the most important tasks done. And so my goal with writing Indestractable was to help people turn their values into time. Most people will tell you the opposite of distraction
	   is focus. It is not focus. The opposite of distraction is traction. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h4e21egq94y3aqp3h8mvqdbg))
	- In fact, everything we do is not motivated by the desire to pursue pleasure and the avoidance of pain. But in fact, it's pain all the way down. This is called the homeostatic response, that any time that we feel some kind of discomfort, that' how the brain prompts us to act to do something to fix that uncomfortable sensation. So physiologically, we know this is true. So if you go outside and it's cold, you put on a jacket. If you go back inside and now it's too hot, you take it off. And psychologically, that's also true, that when we're lonely, we check Facebook. When we're uncertain, we Google. When we're bored, we check the news, stock prices, sports scores, you name it. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h4e2ew6kjyd2nqhz1dgmkhw2))
	- The first step has to be mastering  internal triggers, and we can talk about how do we master those internal triggers. The second step is to make time for traction. The third step is to hack back the external triggers. And finally, the fourth step is to prevent distraction with pacts. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h4e2j7agh88f3k8byvmdwcym))
	- There are three big tactics--reimagining the trigger, reimagining the task, and reimagining our temperament. And so one technique that I learned from acceptance and commitment therapy starts by simply acknowledging the sensation. If you can capture the preceding emotion before the distraction, did you check your phone because you're feeling anxious, fearful, uncertain, fatigued, lonely? What was that underlying sensation that you were turning to your device or some kind of distraction for emotional pacification? And what I want you to do is to just write it down. Without judgment, just acknowledge that sensation. Then the next step is to feel that sensation with curiosity instead of contempt ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h4e2pxg8342kq7ryfxb3gscd))
	- But this one particular thing I have to do today is driving me up the wall. I don't really want to do it. And so this is where you might implement one of these tactics of saying, wait. Why don't I want to do this? What is difficult about this? Is it boredom? Is it that it's fatiguing me? Is it that I'm not certain that this is worth doing? And just writing down that sensation, exploring that sensation with curiosity, and then using this last thing we want to do is call the 10\-minute rule, where, literally, I will pickup my phone, and I will say to my phone, set a timer for 10 minutes. I'll put the phone back down. And my job is to just sit with that sensation for a few minutes with curiosity. And this is called surfing the urge because what we know from acceptance and commitment therapy is that these sensations, these uncomfortable emotional states, they crest, and then they subside much quicker than you think. And so in those 10 minutes, you have two choices. You can either get back to the task at hand or sit with that sensation. At the end of those 10 minutes, you can give in to whatever it is you want. This is not about abstinence. This is about acknowledging you can do that thing that you want to do, whether it's eat the piece of chocolate cake,or check a Slack channel, or check email, or YouTube video.Whatever it is that takes you off track,you can do it in 10 minutes.And you would be amazed how just becomingconscious of those sensations for just 10 minutesand surfing the urge, nine times out of 10,it will crest and subside.So that's one of the three big techniques,reimagining the internal trigger.We can also reimagine the task, and we can alsoreimagine our temperament. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h4e2s9m203bab6m8991gd2f4))
	- Now what you're going to do is to make surethat you turn off the external triggers that don't serve you.Remember, if an external trigger prompts you to dosomething you wanted to do\-\-let's say it's your alarm clock saying, OK,now it's time to get up and go to the gym,or a notification saying, OK, it'stime for that call or that meetingyou had, well, these are very helpful external triggers.The technologies are wonderful in that respect.They help us remember to do the things we wanted to do.
	  
	  But if the external trigger prompts you to do something you didn't want to do, well, now it's a distraction. So the first step is to define, what is traction for you, and what is distraction for you? And it's about carving out that time in your day to make sure that you do the things that you really want to do on your schedule as opposed to your boss's schedule, your kids' schedule, your spouse's schedule. o to do that, we have to hack back these external triggers. And I use the term hack back because in my first book, it was about how to build habit\-forming products. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h4e2xxayz1mq7b89217efzfm))
	- The process starts by realizing that to do lists are not good enough, that we've heard that to be productive, you have to write a to do list. Write everything down, and some how they magically get done. When? I don't know. What I used to do day, after day, after day was half my to do list would not get done. It would get moved over and recycled to the next day, and the next day, and the next day. And you've heard that quote that insanity is defined as doing the same thing day after day and expecting different results. This was insane. I mean, I did this for years.
	  
	  And what I didn't realize is that your to do list is the output. That's what you want to do. But having output without input makes no sense. What is the input? For a knowledge worker, our input is time. So that means that we need to budget for when we want to do everything on our to do list that putting it on our to do list is just step 1.The next step has to be, when are you going to do that task? Now, once you've done that, this becomes a very, very powerful tool because then we can do what's called schedule syncing.
	  
	  Once you have a time box calendar, they can take that calendar to their boss and say, hey, look. Here's what I have. Here's what I'm doing with my week. How does this look? So it looks all right. My priorities are correct. By the way, you also asked me to do these six other things. Now, my schedule's full. Which one should I swap out? What is more of a priority? ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h4e361afxmmgj2kh60wr9g6r))
	- When you have all of those competing demands, probably which add up to more than 24 hours a day, how do you prioritize? NIR EYAL: So it starts with our values. Values are the attributes of the person we want to become. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h4e34kq6sk8zg6hh71yd9kz0))