title:: Investing in Internal Documentation: A Brick-by-Brick Guide for Startups (highlights)
author:: [[firstround.com]]
full-title:: "Investing in Internal Documentation: A Brick-by-Brick Guide for Startups"
media:: #articles
url:: https://review.firstround.com/investing-in-internal-documentation-a-brick-by-brick-guide-for-startups?ref=refind
tags:: #[[documentation]]

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[2023-01-16]]
	- When a founder mandates that better documentation is a priority, you need someone to actually model success and guide implementation on the front lines. Otherwise, you end up with a piecemeal effort that gets abandoned after a few months. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gkwyr81nccmy258syxcfscdz))
		- **Note**: This maybe only helpful, if the systems doesn't change too often. If the technology shifts all the time then documentation may not be necessary.
	- Uber is now famous for how it deployed meticulous internal playbooks for launching its service in a new city. Employees could land in a city with no Uber footprint, armed with a playbook chock-full of documentation on what had worked well in San Francisco and New York. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gkwywhy9k33e4j2b6qys34kb))
		- **Note**: Create a playbook for processes repeat processes.
	- “**I wouldn’t recommend early-stage startups just go out and hire a full-time docs writer**. I’ve learned that, especially in high-performance environments, changing the culture is the highest leverage investment you can make,” he says. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gkwz8bxbfap6tc71v8z43j5j))
	- “**You can’t have a strong documentation culture without a strong writing culture**. The most effective approach I’ve found in embedding this into your culture is ensuring that leaders, from the founders to the frontline manager, [take their own writing seriously](https://review.firstround.com/a-founders-guide-to-writing-well),” says Nunez. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gkwz8qzz5tq7g6e50rzs7h2y))
	- **Recap regularly.** “The most effective way for leaders to sharpen and exemplify their writing and knowledge-sharing skills is to take meeting notes and follow-ups more seriously. Sharing your own action items and takeaways from the meeting will give others a nudge to model this behavior.” ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gkwz970hjnczfae3em3epaw8))
	- **Get existential.** “What did you learn recently? What is your interpretation of current company goals? What recent shifts have you made to the strategy? Sharing musings on a regular cadence offers important context, and they also reinforce the importance of writing and sharing knowledge, which will trickle down to the rest of the org.” ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gkx0c8vf89tnrzvvjqj8pfta))
		- **Note**: Schedule this activity on a monthly basis?
	- editing is critical to the writing process — whether you’re a natural with prose or always dreaded writing essays in school. “Every professional writer has had their writing picked apart over the years, from their professors to coworkers and peers. They accept that it’s just part of the writing process to produce something that’s of high quality. **Letting others critique your writing is a vulnerable position to be in, but practicing your writing and getting feedback is the only way to get better,”** he says. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gkx0ehgbqeea0t6sh42bbexx))
		- **Note**: Is there an AI grammar editor?
	- with your hiring and [promotion processes](https://review.firstround.com/how-to-chart-your-engineering-career-path-ic-manager-or-technical-founder). “I’ve found that if you codify knowledge-sharing expectations in job descriptions and job ladders, folks will inherently look to fulfill those responsibilities on their ladder,” says Nunez. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gkx0n7pfjv2jzf3c3qj4mp8d))
	- With performance reviews and promotions now on the line, folks started prioritizing this sort of work. “I quickly saw many different documentation ideas and projects I would not have considered on my own arising from an engineering org — like building a Slack integration to automatically suggest relevant documentation when asking a question. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gkx0phdz2j22ca6d4bskxxsz))
	- **Shine a spotlight, even outside of performance review season.** “One manager included their ‘doc star of the week’ in each weekly update she sent. It’s such an easy thing to just call people out, and folks love to be recognized — especially for doing something outside of their comfort zone.” ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gkx0py9ez7kf5brbbzd14g9v))
	- Nunez suggests navigating this bend gradually, so as to not tip the truck over. Start by identifying the most critical topics to tackle first. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gkx129brnyara0bj8csn14cd))
	- “Send out a survey to engineers, or look at the most common internal questions popping up in Slack. You’ll likely have 100+ topics with poor documentation that engineers complain about, but in the beginning, you have to align most of your resources behind a narrower focus. **Try to identify the top five to 10 technical topics that engineers are struggling with the most and invest in those**,” he says.
	  
	  Resist the urge to just make assumptions about what folks need. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gkx12srpcfnccwvpfttxmf7d))
	- Focus on what engineers actually needed day-to-day, not just the technology du jour you *think* they needed support with. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gkx135dm4gpjsnmy73p9xec9))
	- As a bonus, by identifying the most critical topics, you’ll make more meaningful progress faster and develop high-quality examples of documentation that others in your organization can emulate. “When you start focusing on documentation, justifiably, engineers are going to say, ‘I've never done this before. Give me an example.’ By putting more effort behind fewer, high-quality resources, you show people what ‘great’ looks like. You raise the floor really quickly,” he says. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gkx14hfq28c85w8c6ne8c0yv))
	- Getting into the habit of writing things down is just half the battle — organizing your docs in a logical, easily-searchable manner is another stumbling block engineering teams face. Without an agreed-upon organization system, you’ll find yourself with an ever-expanding pile of docs with no sense of what’s current and accurate. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gkx1bekf8yacawjgb7cj9pp3))
	- curating and organizing content can be a major win — particularly for organizations that are a bit iffy on whether documentation should be a priority in the first place. “If you focus on curation first, rather than trying to write up tons of net-new docs, you can make such a wide-reaching impact in a relatively short period of time. And you don’t need as much context to do this well. Take inventory of what exists, merge the duplicate content, remove outdated content, clean up and update some important content, and then organize it into a neat structure,” says Nunez. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gkx3nadprgqjqhktrxctacg3))
	- **Assemble your list.**
	  
	  Start with the organization basics, rather than trying to get too complex too quickly. “**Just put all of the important docs that you have listed in a spreadsheet,**” says Nunez. The goal here is to centralize everything in one place, rather than having folks commit “random acts of documentation” that become a disorganized mess. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gkx3pqbv4vmvc1x2snp71jbw))
	- **Onboarding documentation.** “These types of documents are often overlooked, but they are just as, if not more important, than any other type of content. Onboarding docs create an efficient path for new hires,” says Nunez. He suggests a low-lift, unstructured method for getting started: “As you grow your team, ask each new hire to just write down what they’ve learned after the first few months. Each hire will build on what was documented before. After just a few hires, that’s a really solid onboarding guide,” he says. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gkx3qfd3wngsfnzjrj9f8nef))
	- **Task-based documentation:** For example, instructions for your internal users on how to build a new endpoint, integrate with an interface, or use a new feature. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gkx3qqrykgtsvvtd6brqfdwg))
	- **Runbooks:** How to perform a set of tasks in a specific order to perform a common operational task like spinning up a new server or resolving a common error. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gkx3p8xe7swcm8rew3j99vtz))
	- **Wiki-style team documents:** Including meeting notes, memos, musings, proposals. Nunez’s tip: “Write these liberally, but keep them separate from the other docs listed above. These are great resources for teams to quickly capture and share knowledge, but they can be highly noisy.” ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gkx3qxe7ygr7rg55mbsw4fx3))
	- **Identify ownership.**
	  
	  You can spend hours of time assembling a thorough, clear document. But too often, folks skip over one of the most important components: The author name. “You can get fancy with a ledger that records which team owns which document, but even if you manually input a team name at the top of a document, you’re creating more accountability and also allowing people to track down the team if a doc needs updating,” says Nunez. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gkx3rbhcykgafdrk5st7ysx8))
	- **Level up with landing pages.**
	  
	  After going through the spreadsheet organization exercise, Nunez is a big proponent of landing pages as a way to level up. “Landing pages are often overlooked, but easy to make and highly valuable. These are the guideposts at each major user decision point,” he says. “Most internal hubs are just blobs of documents and you try your best to search for what you need. But your internal search engine and your internal content’s SEO are likely poor. Circumvent this shortcoming by making content easier to browse,” he says. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gkx3rwkxg9an67962g2b9z9h))
	- **ake a snapshot.**
	  
	  A low-lift way to document while you go, rather than staring down a blank page once you’re code-complete, is what Nunez calls a snapshot document. “Creating a snapshot just means writing down the actual steps required to complete a task as a user. In the early stages, this can be messy, but it should be accurate. You don’t need conceptual context yet, just simply the steps and inputs a user must follow to use the product for the tasks you want them to complete,” he says. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gkx3se7szx3yn5zcqh1g5rqn))