title:: Much Ado About the OODA Loop (highlights)
author:: [[Cedric Chin]]
full-title:: "Much Ado About the OODA Loop"
media:: #articles
url:: https://commoncog.com/much-ado-about-the-ooda-loop/

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[2023-04-24]]
	- The exact contours of military strategy is always determined by the geopolitical realities and the technological capabilities of the day ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gytkwk64y16p1fh5bkcz9hgx))
		- **Note**: Strategies and best practices should be assessed if they are generalizable from the environment, time, and context from where they were developed.
	- The point is this: the exact contours of military strategy are *always* determined by the geopolitical realities and the technological capabilities of the day. If you are a military thinker and you want to write a strategic framework that stands the test of time, you would have to predict every geopolitical development and every technological breakthrough in history, because what is useful in one era is often not transferable to another. This is an impossible task. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gytkygc79e4f01d8q2e6at8k))
- New highlights added [[2023-04-24]] at 6:51 PM
	- But there is a reason that competitive moats are described as ‘[quantitatively detected but qualitatively created](https://plus.credit-suisse.com/rpc4/ravDocView?docid=V6fkr51AF-WElY95)’ — no amount of analysis will lead you to the sorts of insight necessary to get to that defensible position in the first place! In other words, moats are *always* built as a result of strategic savvy — I can tell you that having a powerful brand leads to sustained pricing power, but I cannot tell you *how* to build a powerful brand in your specific industry, in your specific circumstances, given competitors who are equally savvy, watchful of your actions, have access to the same playbook that you have, and are equally aware of the importance of brand as you are ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gytm81g0z3xcvcyz4nva6v4k))
	- There is a secondary implication here. If the valuable bit of strategy is coming up with what is novel and unexpected to your adversaries, then reading about strategy isn’t as useful as you might think — or at least, not if your goal is to apply some existing strategy to your unique circumstances. The publication of a specific strategy often changes the environment necessary for the strategy to work — or at least triggers the countdown to the eventual demise of the effectiveness of that strategy. *This* is the problem that sits at the root of all strategic thinking: it is not enough to learn the strategies of the last war. The right question to ask in the face of a dynamic system of competition is the following: how do you become the sort of organisation or person who is able to come up with new strategies in the first place? ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gytm9c9f40nx3e8vwesfgcpr))
	- I’ve [mentioned](https://commoncog.com/reality-without-frameworks/) [before](https://commoncog.com/organisational-politics-beware-the-simple-story/) that humans are sensemaking beings, and that we abhor raw information being poured into our brains. In most cases, our sensemaking takes on the form of generating a narrative that ties together facts and observations into a cohesive whole that we can understand. Other times, we build a mental model of the situation ([in the Jean Piaget sense, not the Charlie Munger sense](https://commoncog.com/the-mental-model-faq/#i-spend-a-lot-of-time-reading-about-mental-models-but-i-often-find-it-difficult-to-apply-to-my-life-why-is-this-so)) before we know how to decide and how to act ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gytmwzbep8y83m8nhqfy2ct0))
	- And you can find many more similar observations in other fields, which basically all say the same thing: how you orient or sensemake affects what you observe, and vice versa.
	  
	  Boyd in particular breaks the orientation step down into five components:
	  
	  •   **Your genetic heritage** — because nearly all psychological traits show significant and substantial genetic influence ([Plomin et all, 2017](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4739500/))
	  •   **The cultural tradition** that you come from — which shapes your worldview.
	  •   **The previous experiences** that you’ve had — which is the basis of expertise.
	  •   **The new information** you are receiving from observing the environment, and finally
	  •   Your ability to **analyse and synthesise** the observations you are receiving with the other factors above. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gytnbrv6vyzt7txehvkgzw04))
	- Boyd noticed that if you are able to overwhelm your opponent’s ability to orient under uncertainty, your adversary will ‘fold into himself’ — that is, be paralysed into fear and inaction. If it is an organisation that you are fighting, then this effect will take on the form of infighting amongst the various departments of the organisation.
	  
	  In other words, you know you have started to win when you observe the enemy turning *inward instead of outwards*. If your adversary stops to introspect, to ‘take stock’ of what is going on — and you do not — then you know you have successfully disrupted his decision cycle; similarly, if your adversary is an organisation and you know that the various departments are arguing over what to do, you know you are close to destroying them ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gytnddm8hg3aqnw98pj6q5dx))
	- Boyd believed that analysis and synthesis lay at the heart of good strategic thinking (and, really, at the heart of all good thinking) ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gytp1g9s8xmcf7n0m4qcczkp))
	- There are two ways in which we can develop and manipulate mental concepts to represent observed reality: We can start from a comprehensive whole and break it down to its particulars or we can start with the particulars and build towards a comprehensive whole. Saying it another way, but in a related sense, we can go from the general-to-specific or from the specific-to-general. A little reflection here reveals that deduction is related to proceeding from the general-to-specific while induction is related to proceeding from the specific-to-general. In following this line of thought can we think of other activities that are related to these two opposing ideas? Is not analysis related to proceeding from the general-to-specific? Is not synthesis, the opposite of analysis related to proceeding from the specific-to-general? Putting all this together: Can we not say that general-to-specific is related to both deduction and analysis, while specific-to-general is related to induction and synthesis? Now, can we think of some examples to fit with these two opposing ideas? We need not look far. The differential calculus proceeds from the general-to-specific—from a function to its derivative. Hence is not the use or application of the differential Calculus related to deduction and analysis? The integral calculus, on the other hand, proceeds in the opposite direction—from a derivative to a general function. Hence, is not the use or application of the integral calculus related to induction and synthesis? Summing up, we can see that: general-to-specific is related to deduction, analysis, and differentiation while specific-to-general is related to induction, synthesis, and integration.” ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gytp2y9hxx0yd9k0jbxg0zj2))
	- The core of this idea is that there are really only two modes of thought when you are sensemaking. You either take a framework and apply it to a situation, organising the facts to fit your desired narrative (analysis/deduction), or you take the facts as they are and build up an cohesive explanation for why they are the way they are (synthesis/induction). Anyone who has spent any amount of time writing a college term paper would be familiar with these two modes of thought.
	  
	  Boyd argues that a smart strategic thinker (and a smart thinker … of any kind, really) *must do both.* ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gytp3tdw8dddbdksz0x4m2pd))
	- The reasons for this is simple: adversarial competition of any kind is a dynamic system between multiple actors. The very instant you form a mental model of the situation, you will make decisions and take actions, and therefore change the situation that you have observed. Getting stuck with one conception of the battlefield is a surefire way to be overtaken by the natural uncertainty of war (or be taken advantage of by a savvy enemy who is able to exploit your now static orientation).
	  
	  Instead, Boyd argues that good strategic thinkers are able to destroy their mental models, and then recreate them either via analysis or synthesis, and repeatedly cycle through these two modes of thought as new information presents itself. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gytq4ecnqj2sh4pftccb1v2b))
	- Boyd believes that one's objective should be to act in a manner which destroys an adversary's ability to see reality (**destruction** of a domain or breaking the whole into its respective constituent elements) before he can collect linking elements to recreate a new and improved observation (**creation** of new perceptions of reality through specific to general induction, synthesis, and integration of common qualities or attributes found in the chaotic world). ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gytq4ktfef163et7z21vrjrs))
	- If you have no ability to predict the future, then the next best thing is to leave yourself open to new information, and then reorient yourself repeatedly when faced with an uncertain, constantly changing environment. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gytq6b9tmcwapz3tzext8j1x))
	- Blitzkrieg operating philosophy solves this problem by giving lower level commanders the freedom to shape or direct their own activities, while at the same time acting within a larger Schwerpunkt, or ‘strategic objective’. This allows the lower-level commanders to exploit the faster paced decision cycle available to them at the tactical level, while at the same time acting in harmony with the slower rhythm associated with the larger effort at the strategic level. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gytqddg6ssfms26rkmd5zss7))
	- The subordinate agrees to make his actions serve his superior’s intent in terms of what is to be accomplished, while the superior agrees to give his subordinate wide freedom to exercise his imagination and initiative in terms of how the intent is to be realised. As part of this concept, the subordinate is given the right to challenge or question the feasibility of his mission if he feels his superior’s ideas on what can be achieved are not in accord with the existing situation or if he feels his superior has not give him adequate resources to carry it out. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gytqe2a3bn1zg2mg9djvbc02))
- New highlights added [[2023-04-24]] at 7:51 PM
	- The second is that the group’s communication should be as *implicit* as possible — that is, the individuals that make up the units share a common outlook and approach to tactical affairs. This makes communication easier, and group orientation faster. In WW2, this was achieved by having a body of professional officers who had received exactly the same training during the years of peace, with (per WW2 Blitzkrieg General Gunther Blumen-tritt): “the same tactical education, the same way of thinking, identical speech, hence a body of officers to whom all tactical conceptions were fully clear.” Blumen-tritt continues: “Blitzkrieg presupposes an officer training institution which allows the subordinate a very great measure of freedom of action and freedom in the manner of executing orders and which primarily calls for independent daring, initiative and sense of responsibility.” ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gytqgsakvnpbx9x06z3tck3k))
	- On that note, Boyd argued that a *common outlook* was the most important component of an organic, decentralised C2 structure. Boyd writes: “without the common outlook, superiors cannot give subordinates freedom-of-action and maintain coherency of ongoing action (…) these are a grouping of qualities that when acting together improve the ability to minimise one’s own friction through **initiative** at the lower levels **harmonised** by a shared vision of a single commander. To maximise the opponent’s friction, one must attack with a **variety** of actions executed at the greatest possible **rapidity**” ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gytqj11k8vwsxvdnzdxyjq1a))
	- Charles Koch likes to say: “true knowledge leads to effective action.” Because Boyd’s briefings and theories are so rarely prescriptive, it is difficult to say if they actually *do* lead to effective action ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gytr2dr1f985p8wrgw91nx0j))