title:: Operational Excellence Is the Pursuit of ‘Knowledge’ (highlights)
author:: [[Cedric Chin]]
full-title:: "Operational Excellence Is the Pursuit of ‘Knowledge’"
media:: #articles
url:: https://commoncog.com/operational-rigour-is-the-pursuit-of-knowledge/

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[2023-03-17]]
	- In any study, success will often depend upon knowing what questions to ask. The process behaviour chart is unsurpassed for focusing data so that the user can formulate the interesting and important questions ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gvrczefgfz0jdm2tdzhs4xb7))
	- The traditional approach inevitably results in wasted effort and missed opportunities. The use of traditional approaches guarantees an excess of both kinds of mistakes people make when interpreting data. More often than necessary, managers interpret some bit of noise *(my note: routine variation)* as a signal, and thereby waste time and resources in looking for an explanation that does not exist. On the other hand, many signals *(my note: exceptional variation)*, and the opportunity for improvement which these signals represent, are missed by the traditional approach ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gvrdchzv28ax48q7spxrrgb3))
	- The process behaviour chart filters out the probable noise in order to detect the potential signals in any data set. By filtering out the noise, the process behaviour chart will minimise the number of times that you will interpret a bit of noise as if it were a signal. By causing the potential signals to stand out, the process behaviour chart will also minimise the number of times that you will miss a signal. Thus, **process behaviour charts are the beginning of knowledge because they help you ask the right questions**. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gvrdcvgs9j90k4mdvyecpm9d))
	- You’ll have to step back a little and read the broader body of work around Statistical Process Control (SPC), and in particular W. Edwards Deming’s thoughts on business management. The word ‘knowledge’ is related to two ideas in the broader SPC literature; both bits point us towards the type of thinking that Wheeler is talking about.
	  
	  The first idea is something we’ve [covered before](https://commoncog.com/how-to-become-data-driven/#process-behaviour-charts): SPC practitioners believe that ‘*management is prediction*’. The underlying argument is that in order to run your business properly, you need to be able to *predict* — within limits — the effects your actions have on business outcomes. You need to know things like “oh, so if I run such-and-such marketing campaign, my leads should go up by around X% over the next quarter”, and “if we launch this feature, we should expect to see higher engagement from our core users, which may be measured using the metrics A, B and C” ... plus you need to be correct about those things. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gvrddyhe910ra23w6x74ee6g))
	- Deming argues that if management is prediction, then what you need to seek as a business operator is not truth — _for truth does not really exist in business _— but instead what you should seek is *knowledge*, where knowledge is defined as “beliefs or theories that enable you to make better predictions”. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gvrctpkyrn3arpvn3k5swx7n))
	- Putting these two ideas together gives us a better idea of what Wheeler means. When Wheeler says that usage of process behaviour charts is the ‘beginning of knowledge’, what he means is that such charts should lead you — and your organisation! — to ask *the kind of questions that will slowly build into a causal model of the business in your heads* ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gvrdnx4r9c972t74n2kfxkj3))
	- Over time, consistent and repeated investigation of exceptional variation (plus removal of said variation) should lead you to a better understanding of the various subsystems in your business. Which in turn means that you *should* be able to understand how all those systems fit together — so you may predict how modifying one aspect of that system would affect all the other aspects that are connected to it. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gvrdrfzr1pscaeck15q86b31))