tags:: Meeting Management
superMemo:: Not Started

- #[[Literature Notes]]
- #[[Reference Notes]]
	- While in Chapter 2 **I will argue that the elimination of meetings in and of themselves is absolutely a false goal—the goal should actually be to eliminate and bloated meetings—it is still important to take stock of what meetings are implicitly and explicitly costing an organization, and what the return is on that investment.**
	- Take the time to do the Meeting Quality Self-Assessment, provided at the end of the book, to assess your meetings’ return on investment. It’s important to do this self-assessment from time to time to ensure that your meetings are positive and productive (and encourage your coworkers to do the same)—remember, your organization has a meeting culture that reflects how everyone runs meetings.
	- **Abolishing meetings is a false solution.**
	- Schedules with too few meetings are associated with substantial risks for employees, leaders, teams, and organizations.
	- Not holding enough meaningful meetings will likely derail employees, leaders, teams, and organizations. Holding too few meetings robs employees of essential information and feelings of inclusion, support, voice, and community.
		- Meetings help employees build attachments to others and recognize that they are not alone in silos but instead are part of something bigger than themselves.
		- Meetings make it possible for individual attendees to connect in a highly human way, serving to build relationships, networks, and, most important, support.
		- Meetings serve as vehicles to efficiently bring together ideas, thoughts, and opinions and should enable each person to perform his or her job in a better, more coordinated and cooperative way. Meetings help both leaders and employees to better “make sense” of organizational life, challenges, ambiguities, and opportunities—to create a shared understanding that promotes efficiency and teamwork.
		- Meetings foster commitment to goals and initiatives that connect jobs, as well as commitment to broader departmental and organizational aspirations that may not be explicitly stated in any individual job description.
		- Meetings bring individuals together as a coherent whole. As a result, this coherent whole can be more adaptive, resilient, and self-directing, especially in the face of crisis.
		- At the same time, **meetings are a form of localized democracy where ideas and innovation can emerge through employee interaction—even the smallest voices have the opportunity to be heard and to be given life and influence. Perhaps most importantly, meetings are sites for promoting consensus, thus serving as a focal point for collective drive and energy.**
			- (The listed outcomes above may fail to occur and are the ideal meeting outcomes. In OBI meetings can often devolve to one person speaking)
	- In these private and reflective surveys, respondents consistently advocated for meetings as part of their day. In fact, a day without meetings was not considered desirable.
	- Taking all this information together, it is clear that the elimination of meetings is a false solution. Instead, we must work to make meetings better. The meeting problem can indeed be “solved” through the application of meeting science, rather than with speculative wisdom.
	- **Andy Grove, the former CEO of Intel, was passionate about seeking to improve meetings. He once wrote, “Just as you would not permit a fellow employee to steal a piece of office equipment worth $2,000, you shouldn’t let anyone walk away with the time of his fellow managers.” A poorly conducted and unnecessary meeting is indeed a form of time theft, a theft that can be prevented.**
	- T**here is compelling evidence suggesting that we are poor judges of our own leadership skills when it comes to meetings. Namely, we have an inflated view of our skills.** This inflated perception, in turn, results in a sizable blind spot that likely prevents us from developing, improving, honing, and maximizing our ability to lead meetings.
		- most people believe they are well above average, which clearly is a statistical impossibility.
	- **We found that the amount of participation or involvement in meetings correlated positively with perceptions of meeting effectiveness and satisfaction. In other words, if you talk a lot, you are more likely to think the meeting experience was a good one.**
		- (How can we have a true reflection of the quality of our meeting?)
	- The path to meeting enlightenment is multipronged. Before talking extensively about what each leader can personally do, it is important to recognize that organizations themselves can develop systems and practices that promote self-awareness (and accountability) among their leaders more broadly.
		- Leaders seem to have an overly positive sense of the meeting experience compared to that of meeting attendees. This inflated optimism ultimately diminishes self-awareness and the ability to truly recognize one’s own developmental needs.
		- First and foremost, to facilitate self-awareness, leaders need meaningful meeting skills and facilitation training. After all, if you don’t truly know what excellent meeting behaviors look like, you don’t have an internal standard of sorts to compare yourself to.
		- **The second major prong to promoting self-awareness is feedback. A company’s annual employee engagement and attitude survey must contain content on meetings in order to provide data on how leaders are doing**.
			- Without such content, organizations and, more importantly, individual leaders are left in the dark about whether their meetings are working as well as they think they are.
			- In turn, they remain blind to employee suggestions on how to improve meetings.
		- If we are doing most, if not all, of the talking, that is indeed a negative reflection on our leadership.
	- **If one or two attendees are dominating the meeting discussion, it likely suggests that we did not construct an agenda highly relevant to all, that we have not created a psychologically “safe” setting in which folks can engage, or that we are not actively facilitating the meeting—all of which are not a positive reflection on our leadership.**
	- Putting this informal scanning of cues aside, the best practice for you, as a leader, is to evaluate your standing meetings every three months or so. The evaluation should be quick and easy: a survey given to all attendees containing just a handful of questions.
		- What am I not doing so well as the meeting leader (need to stop doing)? 2. What should I start doing that I am not currently doing? 3. What am I doing well as the meeting leader (need to keep doing)?
	- What Image Do You Want to See? The image you want to see—that is, the type of meeting leader you want to aspire to be—is one closely aligned with servant leadership. By elevating and helping others, a servant leader experiences success for him- or herself, for others, and for the organization.
		- This type of person makes the needs of others a priority and works to meet them and, more broadly, aims to help others grow. By doing so, others maximize their potential and abilities, and they feel “safe” fully engaging at work.
		- leveraging the knowledge, skills, and abilities of the attendees is often a main reason for creating teams and assembling people together. This is in sharp contrast to an egocentric, “leader-first” leadership approach, designed to elevate leaders themselves, drive the accumulation of power, and use that power for self-centered gain.
		- The servant leader is comfortable sharing power and derives satisfaction and success when others prosper and the organization thrives. This type of leadership approach is a core part of the values and development process at many of the most successful global organizations.
	- A leader with a servant-and-giver mindset recognizes his or her unique responsibility to make the meeting a good use of time.
		- **The meeting is not about the leader personally feeling the meeting had value; rather, it is about deriving value more broadly.**
			- It further includes creating a psychologically safe environment where people can share genuine comments, concerns, and feedback.
		- leaders like this are focused on meeting dynamics; they truly are keyed in on facilitating a good meeting experience, rather than elevating and promoting themselves. Being plugged in to managing group dynamics is, after all, the leader’s role, as others will find it difficult to jump in to do this type of task given that it is not the norm for them to do so.
	- Skills of a good meeting leader (servant leadership)
		- Time Management
			- Keeps track of time and paces the meeting effectively, given the big picture of the agenda.
			- Does not rush through an emergent issue that truly needs to be discussed. Able to recognize if an issue raised would be best addressed at a subsequent meeting.
			- Keeps conversation flowing (e.g., recognizing a tangent and pulling it back in to what needs to be discussed).
		- Active Listening
			- **Keeps clarifying and summarizing where things are and collects people’s input so that everyone understands the process and the discussion at hand.**
			- Listens carefully for underlying concerns and helps bring them out so that they can be dealt with constructively.
			- Keeps engaged with the note-taker so that issues, actions, and takeaways are recorded and not lost. Confirms with attendees that all is correct.
		- Conflict Management
			- Encourages conflict around ideas (e.g., “any concerns with this idea”), and then actively embraces and manages the conflict so that positive benefits for performance and decision-making ensue.
			- Maintains an environment where people are comfortable disagreeing (e.g., thanks people for sharing divergent points of view). Invites debate.
			- Deals with disrespectful behavior quickly through redirection, comments around staying constructive, and reminds attendees of the meeting ground rules.
		- Ensuring Active Participation
			- Actively draws out input from others. Keeps mental track of who wants to speak and comes back to them.
			- To keep an attendee from dominating the conversation, uses body language (e.g., a subtle and small hand movement to indicate the need to stop speaking) and transition statements (e.g., “thank you for that”).
			- Keeps side conversations at bay by reigning folks in when they lose focus.
		- Pushing for Consensus
			- Tests for agreement and consensus to get a sense of where attendees are at, but does not unduly and unnecessarily pressure others to reach a conclusion when not ready (unless there is a time urgency).
			- Knows when to intervene assertively in the meeting process and provide direction (e.g., the group lacks focus and is talking over one another) and when to let the process run as it is.
			- Is an honest broker of the conversation at hand and does not privilege his or her viewpoint or ideas in the discussion. Works to remain impartial. Makes it clear that his or her opinion is just one opinion to be discussed.
	- Overall, servant-and-giver meeting leaders take pride in being excellent stewards of others’ time and recognize that this is the path to their ultimate success, the success of others, and the success of the organization. This is a giver mindset.
	- **self-awareness was an exceptional predictor of overall success.**
		- **Those with high self-awareness did a better job hiring subordinates and, perhaps most importantly, leveraging the talent around them**.
	- Realize—and embrace—the fact that you are likely not quite as good at leading meetings as you think you are. Evidence shows that we are likely to overestimate our abilities; accepting this reality is key to self-awareness and making improvements.
	- Make increasing meeting leadership an organizational priority: start by suggesting that meetings be part of your 360-degree feedback for leaders; add a section to your yearly employee engagement survey on meetings. Do not try to make these improvements all on your own—make it a focus for everyone in order to create positive organizational change.
	- Try to adopt a servant leadership and giver mindset in order to unleash collective talent in a meeting and to foster buy-in. Ultimately, servant leadership will serve you well in and outside of meetings.
	- The Economist published a humorous essay titled “Parkinson’s Law.” The first paragraph reads as follows: It is a commonplace observation that work expands so as to fill the time available for its completion.
		- Parkinson’s law manifests in non-time related ways as well. An intriguing study published in the Journal of Criminal Justice examined jail capacity and incarceration. It found that a large increase in jail capacity in Orange County, Florida, led to an increase in daily incarceration levels beyond what would be expected on the basis of police activity and preexisting incarceration.
		- Stated differently, if we have space, we fill it.
		- **The fact that the work of a meeting generally expands to fill whatever amount of time you allot presents us with an opportunity. How much time can you reclaim for yourself and your coworkers by trimming and pruning your calendars?**
	- **Namely, performance is optimal when some level of stress exists, and performance is lowest in the absence of stress, as well as when there is an abundance of stress.**
		- This pattern of findings exists for both individual and team performance, across both work and sports contexts. So, by dropping 5–10 percent off the well-considered estimate, you are potentially introducing a healthy amount of stress, which promotes task-related focus, stimulation, energy, and engagement.
	- The huddle is a gathering of the team to strategize, discuss, monitor, motivate, or celebrate.
	- **The meeting leader should never be afraid, no matter the length of a meeting, to end a meeting early: (1) when it looks as if the meeting goals have been met (no need to drag it out), or (2) when the attendees seem to be just spinning their wheels and are not being productive.**
	- **Parkinson’s law states that work expands to whatever time is allotted. Keep this in mind with regard to meetings, and take the time to conscientiously choose the length of your meetings (based on the goals, agenda, attendees, etc.). Perhaps even consider a nontraditional meeting length or start time, like the forty-eight-minute meeting, to push the envelope.**
	- **A leader’s decision to have an agenda was a very minor predictor of attendees’ perceptions of meeting effectiveness. More pessimistically, other researchers found no positive relationship between attendees’ evaluation of meeting quality and having a written agenda.**
	- **“by failing to prepare, you are preparing to fail.”**
	- **Agenda Construction:** What Should Be Included in the Meeting? The following are some examples of topics particularly well suited for a meeting; these are the types of interaction-requiring topics you would like to see on an agenda:
		- Identification of key risks or challenges the unit is facing or will be facing
		- Identification and discussion of key metrics to assess progress
		- Evaluation of key processes or changes made
		- Discussion of what is going well and not so well—areas of improvement
		- Dissemination and interpretation of key information or policy changes • Calls to action and planning or strategy activities • Solving important problems and making collective decisions • After action, reflection and discussion of key learnings • Discussion and celebration of victories and individual and collective excellence • Short-range and long-range forecasting • Identification and discussion of new opportunities • Dialogue around coordination of efforts • Budgetary planning, issues, and adjustments • Key talent issues, both positive and negative • Presenting a new product or idea and getting feedback
		- **Research strongly supports the notion of “voice” in work-related activities. That is, when employees are encouraged to share their thoughts and ideas in a genuine manner and those ideas are truly heard, they tend to feel a greater sense of commitment to and identification with the team and the organization.**
		- “The most important criterion governing matters to be talked about is that they be issues that preoccupy and nag the subordinate.”
		- **By adding employee input to the meeting agenda, you are increasing the chances of hitting topics of critical importance to all who are present.**
			- This all can be executed simply by sending an email three to five days before the meeting asking for topics to include on the agenda (I sometimes recommend having attendees include a reason why this agenda item should be included).
			- After identifying the potential topics and goals of the meeting (emerging both from self-reflection and from others’ input), as the meeting leader you need to carefully reflect on the importance of the goals and whether each is adding true value—value beyond opportunity costs (i.e., time that could be spent elsewhere). Drop content that does not make the cut. Also, drop content if the goal is only relevant to a small subset of attendees; in this case, it is best pursued in a different context.
		- **Agenda Construction:** Flow Matters The next step in agenda creation involves the critical task of ordering the topics, which is essential to the success of the meeting.
			- Given these findings, first and foremost, I recommend ranking your prospective meeting goals (both those from you and those from your employees) on the basis of strategic importance. You need to have a good sense of what you feel is essential to cover, versus what is just nice to cover.
			- **It is critical that meetings not be fully focused on putting out fires and solving immediate problems but instead also contain some more proactive, longer-term items.**
			- First, it might be the case in looking at your agenda items that certain items should be addressed in close proximity to one another. By doing so, your agenda will tell a better “story.”
			- Second, if all else is generally equal, I like the idea of prioritizing employee-generated agenda items. This sends a strong message around voice, inclusion, and shared ownership.
		- Third, although meetings should always start on time and all items on the agenda should be important, **the very first part of the meeting can contain some “warm-up” types of items, thus serving as a little buffer if individuals are late and, more importantly, as a means to build momentum (e.g., sharing quick announcements, sharing quick updates from the last meeting).**
			- However, no later than 10–15 percent into the meeting time should the most important, meaty, and critical agenda items be broached.
		- No matter what story agenda path you take, it should always end in a similar way—closing with a few-minutes-long wrap-up to cover meeting takeaways, clarify assignments, and note some items that will be put on the agenda for next time.
			- I also recommend that you sometimes end the meeting with a Q&A session.
		- Research generally indicates that too much structure can serve to derail creativity, enjoyment, and flexibility. Furthermore, recall from our discussion of Parkinson’s law that we tend to unconsciously and consciously match our efforts to allocated time.
		- **I always encourage leaders to share draft item times with another meeting attendee before finalizing the agenda; the extra feedback is helpful in getting it right.**
			- Finally, if you do proceed with timed items, don’t forget to gather feedback periodically to assess whether the overall use of the technique is working and whether your time allotments have been appropriate.
			- Although meeting leaders are ultimately in charge of the meeting experience, they have the ability to share leadership in a strategic manner. One way of doing this is to have certain agenda items assigned to “owners.”
		- These owners facilitate the discussion around the agenda item and, in many cases, are in charge of the post-meeting actions related to it. **The research literature shows that when you clearly and publicly attach a name to a task, you foster accountability.** This, in turn, increases follow-through on what was decided at the meeting (an important piece of ultimate meeting success).
		- The final step in agenda creation that is so commonly ignored is thinking about processes to use to address the various agenda items in play. Stated differently, planning a meeting is knowing not only what you want to cover but also how you want to go about doing
		- The final step in agenda creation that is so commonly ignored is thinking about processes to use to address the various agenda items in play. Stated differently, planning a meeting is knowing not only what you want to cover but also how you want to go about doing it.
	- The horsepower of any meeting comes from the knowledge, skills, and abilities of the meeting attendees themselves.
	- **They report that for each additional person over seven members in a decision-making group, decision effectiveness is reduced by approximately 10 percent.**
		- We know that as meeting size increases, the probability of the “social disease” called social loafing increases. Social loafing is a human tendency to reduce effort and motivation when working in a collective; it is akin to “hiding in a crowd,”
		- As meeting size increases, process inefficiencies and process problems increase given coordination issues and the like.
		- As meeting size increases, process inefficiencies and process problems increase given coordination issues and the like. Thus, the larger the meeting, the less optimally the meeting group performs, on average.
		- **In an attempt to advise on the “right” number of meeting attendees, I first recommend consulting your meeting goals to help you determine all the relevant and necessary parties. Thinking about who the key decision makers and stakeholders are for accomplishing each goal will help you make decisions about the invite list.**
	- **For each meeting goal, the leader should ponder the following questions:**
		- 1. Who has the information and knowledge about the topic in question? 
		  2. Who are the key decision makers and important stakeholders relevant to the issue? 
		  3. Who are the people who need the information that is going to be discussed? 
		  4. Who are the people who will implement any decision or act on the issue?
	- Large meetings are not optimal, often leading to dysfunction and attendee dissatisfaction.
	- **First and foremost, in examining your agenda and the goals listed, it might be the case that you could split the agenda items in a compelling manner, thus allowing you to hold two smaller and shorter meetings rather than one larger, more expansive meeting. This allows you to keep meeting sizes in check.**
	- **Person A and person F are in privileged speaking locations representing either the head or the foot of the table; they likely will communicate the most given that these positions typically represent leadership roles. This arrangement is fine if their expertise is most important. But if they are misinformed or have bad ideas, their exaggerated influence can be detrimental.**
	- Walking outside yielded the greatest positive creativity boost across all four conditions.
		- For example, the researchers found that when performing the GAU, over 80 percent of the participants were more creative when walking than when seated, and they were most creative when walking outside. Taken together, it appears that walking is not only good for the individual’s mind and body but also results in greater potential for innovative thinking.
	- **Negativity is personally draining and collectively contagious. We know that a person’s mood state (i.e., his or her current mood) greatly affects how that person thinks and acts.**
	- **Positive mood states promote individual cognitive flexibility, resilience, well-being, and even creativity.**
		- They used a mood induction process (e.g., having participants focus for three minutes on a recent past event that put them in a good mood, thus prompting that good mood to reemerge to some extent) to create three groups: individuals in good moods, those in bad moods, and those in neutral moods.
		- Groups of meeting attendees in the positive-mood condition outperformed groups in the neutral- or negative-mood condition on a creative task (similar to the paper-clip creativity task I mentioned earlier).
		- **Research has indeed found that the mood of the meeting leader is a good predictor of the eventual mood of attendees. Other work has gone even further: we now know that the mood state of the leader is actually a predictor of group performance.**
		- **Early positive comments by the actor were followed by more constructive collective discussions, with increased listening and a higher probability of reaching consensus. When the actor started with a negative comment, however, the discussion tended to be more contentious, the mood was more hostile, and there was a lower probability of coming to consensus.**
		- Therefore, it is critical that you start your meeting with intention—with care to ensure subsequent interactions are as positive as possible.
		- Therefore, despite countless meetings to prepare for these launches, critical factors remained under the surface, all but assuring ultimate failure. One key to preventing this outcome: less talking and more silence.
	- **For good things to happen, the meeting must tap into each attendee’s relevant and critical knowledge, insights, and perspectives. If attendees don’t share key information and insights relevant to the meeting goals, especially information they hold uniquely, the meeting is destined for mediocrity, at best.**
		- **Unique knowledge, on the other hand, can do just that, as it may serve to challenge ideas and thinking, which is essential to avoiding groupthink (the phenomenon that a group’s desire for harmony leads to the pressure to conform and to a lack of critical decision-making).**
		- **In fact, one of the key tactics known to prevent groupthink is to make sure contrarian and unique perspectives surface during the course of discussions.**
	- Reflecting on the failed Bic underwear example, what Bic really needed was a meeting in which attendees voiced concerns, such as (1) disposable fabrics are not very comfortable, (2) is this product really needed?, and (3) does our strong image as a pen company truly position us to pursue this underwear initiative? It is clear: for organizations, getting relevant unique and contrarian perspectives to the forefront is critical.
	- Remarkable results. **The participants who interacted during the meeting produced significantly fewer and lower-quality ideas than the non-talking meeting participants. These effects became larger and larger as meeting size increased.** Three reasons are offered to explain why the non-talking meetings performed better than the talking meetings for brainstorming. First, there was an absence of “production blocking.” In a meeting, the general rule of thumb is that only one person can speak at a time (despite the fact that we often talk over each other). This creates some speaking logjams where ideas are at risk of being forgotten or tabled because an attendee no longer feels they are relevant or needed by the time this person has the opportunity to speak.
		- Furthermore, finding that speaking window of opportunity can prove challenging.
		- Leigh Thompson, a management professor at Northwestern University, found that only a few people do 60–75 percent of the talking in traditional brainstorming meetings. This dominance leaves little time for others to get their ideas in.
		- A second reason is that attendees who silently wrote down their ideas did not fear social humiliation, especially when written contributions were de-identified.
		- The third and final reason is that the silent writing meetings fostered a process in which all attendees had to participate—the paper and pen were directly in front of them. Thus, an attendee could not hide behind others’ contributions. Overall, a written silent discussion seemed to reduce the risk that great ideas lay dormant and undiscovered.
		- **Writing in advance of the meeting requires the presenter to think deeply and cogently about what he or she is proposing before engaging extensively with others and using their time. These written reports, no more than six pages, generally follow an accepted flow, which includes topics such as the problem at hand, data that bear upon understanding aspects of the problem, proposed solutions, and how the proposed solutions impact customers.**
		  id:: 2a9dde20-68bc-45dc-a136-6176b910a7fa
		- **There are data suggesting that breaking a meeting into two or more smaller parts results in higher-quality outcomes.**
		- Successful organizations, and successful leaders, understand that small, positive changes—say, one meeting every week—can lead to palpable gains for the organization and the health, motivation, and engagement of its employees.
		- **As a meeting leader, if you simply take a bit of time to think through—to visualize—the meeting, the flow, the key needs, and the key challenges in advance, you will improve the chances of ultimate success.**
		- **Having too many meeting attendees typically equates to too many voices, logistical challenges, and even social loafing. Too many attendees can be problematic, but simply cutting people from the roster is not without complication. Employees who do not receive an invitation to a meeting can feel excluded.**
			- Thus, by cutting down the invite list you may find more than a couple of despondent employees. To solve this problem, determine how many people are needed, then provide nonessential personnel the opportunity to be involved in a more appropriate way.
		- **In an attempt to advise on the “right” number of meeting attendees, I first recommend reviewing your meeting goals to determine who the relevant and necessary parties are. When you identify who the key decision makers or stakeholders are for accomplishing each goal, you will have a much easier time making decisions about the invite list. If some people are required for only a short period, consider a timed-agenda approach: invite different groups of employees to a portion of a meeting that is most relevant to them.**
		- My last advice for keeping meetings to a manageable size is to consider “representative voices,” where you assign a meeting attendee to represent the collective interests of a group of stakeholders, like a department, who are not invited to the meeting.
		- If you adopt this mindset, you will plan and lead your meetings with the understanding that it is your duty to make the meeting a good use of time and value for all. Conversely, some leaders may choose to derive power from controlling or dominating a meeting; this person often features him- or herself in all discussions and interactions. This takes energy—energy that leaves little bandwidth to actively manage the dynamics of the meeting.
	- **With a servant-and-giver mindset, leaders do not use the meeting to elevate themselves; instead, they actively prepare and participate in an effort to facilitate a good meeting experience.**
		- The leader manages crucial meeting dynamics: engaging all attendees, asking the right questions, modeling active listening, drawing out input, playing traffic officer, and managing emergent conflict. Such leaders seek to facilitate actively but without foisting their will on others. These actions build trust, safety, and honesty and generate terrific amounts of input, innovation, and buy-in.
	- **Beyond the steps you can take as attendees arrive, it is imperative to start the meeting off on the right foot. Offer a purposeful opening statement,**
	- Poorly conducted meetings clearly hurt leaders, teams, departments, and organizations. The answer is not eliminating meetings. If we eliminate meetings, the organization suffers, as meetings have the potential to serve so many positive purposes.