title:: The Deming Paradox: Operationally Rigorous Companies Aren't Very Nice Places to Work (highlights)
author:: [[Cedric Chin]]
full-title:: "The Deming Paradox: Operationally Rigorous Companies Aren't Very Nice Places to Work"
media:: #articles
url:: https://commoncog.com/deming-paradox-operational-rigour/

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[2023-04-24]]
	- the data tools and statistical methods he popularised can and have been used to produce amazing business outcomes with horrible human costs. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gytenzhnkjaab80tksw8bftm))
	- Let’s tackle the first part of that claim. What kind of horrible human costs? Well, consider the response that many of my Big Tech friends have had when I explained that I was digging into the source methods for Amazon’s operational rigour: “That’s nice.” they’d retort, “And cool if you get it to work for you. But Amazon has a funny way of sucking the soul out of everyone I know who has worked there.”
	  
	  I’ve heard this enough times, from enough different sources that I mostly accept it as true. And from anecdotal evidence I also know that Western companies with sufficient operational rigour tend to be rather … unpleasant places to work. “Is that not the price of excellence?” a friend said, after I told him of this conundrum. “What, you expect such operational excellence to come for free?” ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gytep57ches12rf58btzqqwp))
	- Many of the myths Deming saw in management practice were based on false premises and beliefs. In his writings, Deming sometimes used the term “folklore” or “common sense” instead of myth. He wrote that common sense tells us to rank children, employees, students, and teams; to reward the “best” and punish the “worst”; to have quotas and numerical goals for individuals or groups; to assume that a problem always is caused by the people doing the work instead of the system in which they operate. He worked hard to help people to see the irrelevance, limitations, and the cost of these major myths entrenched in society. He wrote, “It is wrong to suppose that if you can’t measure it, you can’t manage it—a costly myth.” ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gytfp5y6bpxgqwk4mbqkbhc8))
	- Take, for instance, his argument that [understanding variation is the beginning of ‘knowledge’](https://commoncog.com/operational-rigour-is-the-pursuit-of-knowledge/). If we accept that [routine variation is present in every natural process](https://commoncog.com/how-to-become-data-driven/), and that [setting a target does not in itself help you achieve that target](https://commoncog.com/goodharts-law-not-useful/) (you need to ‘listen to the voice of the process’, not the ‘voice of the specification or the target’) then you get conclusions like the following (again, from Ed Baker’s book):
	  
	  > Grading was developed more than 150 years ago as a method for the teacher to have a private conversation with the student’s parents. It has been replaced by what could be called the myth of defect detection. **Rating and grading is analogous to inspection of parts in the factory. Inspection is after the fact, after the parts are produced. Therefore it does not improve the process that produced the parts; it does not prevent defects from occurring** *(emphasis mine)*. Likewise, many administrative practices in schools do not help to improve the system of education, practices such as improvement goals without a method to achieve them and grading and comparing schools to provide pressures to be above average, as if more than half of any group ever could be above average in any measurement. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gytfqmzw22vmtrmwmy65z0da))
	- Deming helped Japanese automakers improve their factory production and build some of the strongest manufacturing companies in the world. Like Charles Koch, Deming stood apart from the mainstream thinking of America’s business community, and he wasn’t afraid to speak his mind about it. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gytg3ztrjcjr84mx2nxeg6dt))
	- A run chart broke down all the costs that a barge would incur. It had a separate category for each cost: groceries, fuel, maintenance, ship damage, and supplies. The run chart allowed you to track these costs as they shifted from month to month, letting you see “where you’ve been and where you’re going.” Dubose was taught to look for cost spikes. The reason was simple: you figured out what caused costs to spike, and you avoided it. Then you figured out what caused costs to fall, and you replicated it. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gytg8h141rn8g1p103zh0363))
	- The critical part came next. Dubose printed run charts for each vessel and posted them in the skippers’ cabins. Each skipper could then see for themselves where they were running up costs and where they were saving money. Dubose turned each skipper into his own manager. Skippers were free to make their own decisions based on the run chart. Then Dubose went further. He started tracking the profits and losses for each barge. This made each skipper a small-business owner and each barge a small business. The skipper had all the information he needed to boost profits and the freedom to act on that information. And Dubose had total visibility into his fleet; he knew which ships were losing money and which were making it ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gytg9737yyeb9scsb343mrqt))