title:: The Cautionary Tale of South Park’s Underpants Gnomes (highlights)
author:: [[Steve Kamb]]
full-title:: "The Cautionary Tale of South Park’s Underpants Gnomes"
media:: #articles
url:: https://observer.com/2016/01/the-cautionary-tale-of-south-parks-underpants-gnomes/

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[2023-04-24]]
	- Whether you realize it or not, you are an underpants gnome! Any time you read an inspiring news story, watch a YouTube video of somebody doing something amazing, or [read a book that encourages you to make changes in your life](http://www.amazon.com/Level-Your-Life-Adventure-Happiness/dp/1623365406/), you are collecting underpants. In fact, most of us spend all day reading, watching, or listening to things and then going, “Whoa, it would be so cool if I could do that!” **Then we dutifully move on to the next nugget of knowledge or inspiration that makes us say, “I’d love to do that some day!” Each time we do this, we are contributing to our pile of underpants**. Whether it’s scanning a fitness site for advice on completing a marathon, reading a phrase book to better learn French, watching a video of somebody doing parkour, attending a TEDx conference and learning about volunteering opportunities in Africa, or even just reading this very book, we are all making mental notes of the things we’d like to do. This is the equivalent of collecting a pile of underpants. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gyth9a6ktz7y1t7w14rqrv3s))
	- Phase 3 is what you hope to accomplish after starting to build your pile: your life when you are firing on all cylinders. You are embarking on adventures, you are challenging yourself, you wake up excited, you feel purpose each and every day. Which brings me to my point: you must learn to dominate Phase 2. You can spend all day every day learning and collecting and researching. You could read [my book](http://www.amazon.com/Level-Your-Life-Adventure-Happiness/dp/1623365406/) so many times that you memorize it cover to cover. In fact, you could become the best information gatherer in the entire world, for hundreds of subjects. Gathering information is a great start—Phase 1 is a crucial part of the equation. After all, it’s tough to solve a problem if you don’t study it, and it’s tough to work out a solution without understanding what you hope to accomplish with it. However, if you only focus on Phase 1, all you’ll be left with is a big pile of underpants! ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gytha8tswttzmhqms43zfqmn))
	- Phase 2 is about figuring out what to do with that knowledge you’ve been collecting so that you can advance to Phase 3, which could be health, love, happiness, adventure, or any combination of the things that remind us it’s a damn good day to be alive. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gythan3fdq4yz8mz0m557skd))
	- **People who dominate Phase 2 are action-takers.** They understand that collecting a few underpants and then immediately trying to do things with that knowledge is a much faster path to Phase 3 than just collecting more and more underpants!
	  
	  Phase 2 is about learning, trying, failing, backtracking, trying again, and learning even more. Phase 2 is about going for your first hike despite not having the best gear. Phase 2 is about attempting your first push-up even if it’s ugly. Phase 2 is about trying to build your first mobile app instead of reading yet another book about programming. Phase 2 is about conversing on Skype with a native speaker of the language you are trying to learn (in broken phrases, if necessary) instead of reading yet another book on that language. Phase 2 is about approaching somebody you’d like to meet rather than reading yet another book on social skills. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gythbrzzcp5tjr864v415exk))