title:: The Five Core IT Shifts of Scaled Agile Organizations (highlights)
author:: [[McKinsey & Company]]
full-title:: "The Five Core IT Shifts of Scaled Agile Organizations"
media:: #articles
status:: #📥inbox 
url:: https://www.mckinsey.com/capabilities/people-and-organizational-performance/our-insights/the-five-core-it-shifts-of-scaled-agile-organizations

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[2023-07-18]]
	- A common complaint among CEOs is that the IT department is like a black hole; they see delayed projects and overrun budgets, and it can be a struggle to measure IT productivity. On the flip side, CIOs note that the business often throws an endless string of new requirements over the fence that IT doesn’t have capacity to deliver, let alone manage the corresponding technical debt. In traditional structures, the process of defining and aligning business and IT requirements can take three to six months before the first line of code is even written. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h5p0wpbk1h1mvhtw6hr89j8p))
		- **Note**: OBI is clearly not an agile organization where the hierarchy impedes careful decision making and in fact can steer the organization in the wrong way. How can we diagnose the organization's problems so we can fix the poor results?
	- Overcoming this dichotomy requires shifting the collaboration model away from an isolated IT department and toward cross-functional teams that contain a mix of business-line and IT professionals. By achieving missions with as few handovers as possible, these [teams are crucial](https://www.mckinsey.com/industries/financial-services/our-insights/ings-agile-transformation) to increasing the speed of development, launch, and feedback integration. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h5p0xa0q40arj2nj8cabdswk))
	- At the core of this model are “BizDevOps” teams of five to nine people that have all the required skills to deliver a mission: business, developing and testing, and site reliability engineering (Exhibit 2). Business team members include product owners, product experts, and customer experience experts who drive product needs based on the voice of the customer and ROI. Engineers drive production of shippable software on a daily basis, as well as automation to release and operate reliably in production. Daily interaction allows the team to reduce requirements alignment time from months to days or even hours, radically reducing time to market and the need for communicating through bureaucracy. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h5p10x48f7w616bpct6krv91))
		- **Note**: This is a nice summation of a possible solution to a large uncoordinated organization but does not have a prescriptive solution to model. What resources can OBI use to remedy our problems?
- New highlights added [[2023-07-19]] at 2:21 AM
	- In these companies, segment tribes bundle products for specific business segments and support commercial activities, while product tribes develop product features and product-specific customer journeys. To counterbalance the autonomy of the segment and product tribes and to preserve architectural consistency and IT cost efficiency, companies also establish platform tribes that deliver common services, providing reusable components to facilitate the work of engineers in business tribes. Examples include cybersecurity-as-a-service, infrastructure-as-a-service, and data-as-a-service tribes that provide automated self-service tools, as well as core IT tribes that hold complex legacy systems that span multiple tribes and can’t (yet) be distributed. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h5p2fbaq0h67g4tmnxbq2t04))
	- In many cases, the tribes absorb the entire IT staff and take ownership of IT systems, and the traditional IT department ceases to exist. However, the need—and responsibility of the CIO—remains to supervise technical debt and the technical quality of delivery and uptime, as well as attract and develop IT talent. To achieve a balance, companies can ensure each tribe has both a business lead (“mini CEO”) and an IT lead (“mini CIO”). Often, the business-tribe leads report to the head of business (typically an executive committee member such as the chief commercial officer), and the IT leads report to the CIO, ensuring a level of control and accountability by the CIO. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h5p2ft8pnaffk0vfx4rxsebw))
		- **Note**: How do we implement this without putting everyone in a meeting?
	- Shift #2: Applications and services: From a monolith IT core to granular applications and services isolated by APIs and owned by teams of teams ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h5p2g38zcqwa2623n9m5gdcs))
	- the pressure to deliver great customer experiences while spending money wisely has led a number of agile companies to adopt the “Strangler pattern.” This approach involves selecting the most frequently changing functionalities (such as loan-origination journeys, product catalogs or tariff modules, scoring engines, data models, or customer-facing journeys), assigning ownership for these functionalities to business or platform tribes, and setting up dedicated BizDevOps teams to create granular and specialized services (often called microservices). These services follow a “one service–one function” principle, carving out what doesn’t belong in legacy systems and leaving a leaner core (Exhibit 3). At its base, this approach cuts down on the time to develop and revise functionalities, reducing total cost of ownership. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h5p2qb1q9vf0ygytknmqdn66))
	- While primary banking system functionalities (such as a general ledger) should and will remain within the core, one bank was able to make its monolith core banking systems leaner by approximately 35 percent by separating noncore functions into a microservice layer or specialized applications (for example, a pricing engine or collections service), enabling frequent changes to independent microservices or modules. Another bank applied the approach selectively on a limited number of journeys (including onboarding and cross-selling), carved out frequently changing functionalities required to support these journeys from legacy systems into independent microservices, and was able to shorten the time to market for features touching these functionalities from months to hours. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h5p2ray130tt918r2vfpcf94))
	- Shift #4: Delivery process: From waterfall processes to continuous delivery ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h5p2s1ng7v77ksfjagn02b66))
	- While an average company is able to release three to four major upgrades of functionality per year and faster ones reach ten to 12, digital-native companies such as Amazon, Google, and most digital start-ups can release at virtually any time as needed—weekly, daily, or hourly. This allows digital natives to A/B test different versions of the same functionality with different clients, test MVPs any time, incorporate customer feedback at pace, and continually evolve the business, reaching a true level of agility. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h5p2t6ww7rt3vwm05xgdfapz))
	- Speeding up delivery does not require a trade-off with quality. Getting competent engineers working on autonomous microservices unlocks the true power of continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD). The secret to making this shift lies in automating tasks to enable frequent incremental releases (Exhibit 4). ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h5p4c9dbncq3jdg57bz6v0ax))
	- Because not all the systems will be ready from day one, some companies will need to adopt a differentiated approach, allowing API-ready systems to release any time and adopting release trains for systems that require regression testing, while investing in their automation. This automation and acceleration of delivery process is typically driven by special delivery-platform-as-a-service units that support all “teams of teams” in a company in adopting engineering practices by setting up and maintaining tools such as CI/CD pipelines. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h5p4d55s4vrf22tjg5xk0wye))
	- Shift #5: Infrastructure: From physical infrastructure to cloud, containers, and infrastructure as code ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h5p78cj3yaz04amwpjcxbdtx))
	- Similar to automation, cloud infrastructure allows companies to obtain computing and storage capacity on demand, skipping bureaucratic procedures and spending seconds provisioning an environment instead of waiting for weeks. As our [previous research](https://www.mckinsey.com/capabilities/mckinsey-digital/our-insights/making-a-secure-transition-to-the-public-cloud) has shown, nearly 80 percent of enterprises have already been planning to put at least 10 percent of their workloads in the public cloud over the next three years. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h5p78vx4q5qne3ga1a53yp36))