title:: When Action Beats Prediction (highlights)
author:: [[Cedric Chin]]
full-title:: "When Action Beats Prediction"
media:: #articles
url:: https://commoncog.com/when-action-beats-prediction/

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[2023-06-01]]
	- One of the big ideas that we’ve covered in the past couple of weeks is the notion that ‘[management is prediction](https://commoncog.com/no-truth-in-business-only-knowledge/)’ — the W. Edwards Deming observation that you *cannot* run your business effectively if you are unable to predict the outcomes of your actions. We’ve mostly talked about this in the context of [becoming data-driven](https://commoncog.com/becoming-data-driven-in-business/): the raison d'etre for using data is to gain knowledge, and the purpose of knowledge is so that you may make better, more accurate predictions when running your business. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h1pfwczv3yys5t9zp76z6qfp))
	- But I think it’s worth talking about business situations where prediction is overrated. It turns out that we’ve covered various variations of this idea over the course of Commoncog’s history:
	  
	  •   At the end of the [Forecasting series](https://commoncog.com/the-forecasting-series/) I admitted that forecasting wasn’t as useful to the average operator as I thought it would. I then [homed in](https://commoncog.com/the-limits-of-superforecasting/#what-organisations-do-this) on ‘fast adaptation to uncertainty’ as an alternative to ‘become very good at forecasting’.
	  •   In the weeks after that admission I dug into and then wrote about John Boyd’s ideas around the OODA loop, pointing out that organisations that are built to orient quickly under uncertainty [all seem remarkably similar](https://commoncog.com/much-ado-about-the-ooda-loop/#idea-4-building-organisations-that-can-orient-quickly).
	  •   In [Action Produces Information](https://commoncog.com/action-produces-information/) we talked about how traditional decision making frameworks don’t regard acting to generate new information as a valid move, which *limits their usefulness.*
	  •   Years ago, I observed in the [Chinese Businessman Series](https://commoncog.com/chinese-businessmen-superstition-doesnt-count/), that often the correctness of one’s beliefs do not map to real world success. Fast adaptation to uncertainty (more commonly viewed as a bias to action) explains a large chunk of successful business outcomes.
	  •   And in [What I Learnt From Complexity](https://commoncog.com/learning-from-waldrop-complexity/) I mentioned in passing that Dr Saras Sarasvathy’s work on effectuation better captures the sorts of thinking that entrepreneurs do — and that kind of thinking is *diametrically opposed to prediction.* ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h1pfx49rmgpsjdgkjkdxqc0n))
	- •   If you use causal thinking, you’ll say something like “ok, we’re making carbonara tonight” and then you will work backwards from the end goal (carbonara for, say, five people) to checking for ingredients in your kitchen, to purchasing the ingredients you don’t have, to prepping and cooking carbonara for your dinner party.
	  •   If you use effectual thinking, you’ll say something like “ok, what ingredients and tools do I have *right now*, and what can I make tonight?” You work *forwards* from existing resources; the end product is unknown. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h1pfzjv2k65a1ykpaga4dk00))
	- In a business context, causal thinking is “we need to increase sales by 12% by the end of the quarter, what levers do I have available to do that?”; effectual thinking is “we have some spare capacity next quarter: one designer and three software engineers, what crazy new thing could we build that might have value for the company?” ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h1pg5tw1ge9mfxr91fj6m86r))
	- When your success depends on chance opportunities, when your breakthroughs are contingent on environmental changes beyond your control, when luck plays a such a huge role on your success, *how do you think about business?*
	  
	  The answer to this is, broadly, effectuation: good entrepreneurs give up on prediction and actively distrust information that is *not* generated by action. They deal with uncertainty through execution. They embrace the fact that they can know nothing with certainty and that they cannot even calculate the probabilities of anything working (and anyway that this is mostly useless — entrepreneurship is often the act of the improbable). They learn to improvise their way to a working company. Sometimes this means they end up with a remarkable business. Other times it doesn’t. But in all situations, they learn to roll with it ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h1pgwh5wacy28kk4rnzwv2kc))
	- All entrepreneurs begin with three categories of means: (1) Who they are — their traits, tastes and abilities; (2) What they know — their education, training, expertise, and experience; and, (3) Whom they know — their social and professional networks. Using these means, the entrepreneurs begin to imagine and implement possible effects that can be created with them. Most often, they start very small with the means that are closest at hand, and move almost directly into action without elaborate planning. Unlike causal reasoning that comes to life through careful planning and subsequent execution, effectual reasoning lives and breathes execution. Plans are made and unmade and revised and recast through action and interaction with others on a daily basis. Yet at any given moment, there is always a meaningful picture that keeps the team together, a compelling story that brings in more stakeholders and a continuing journey that maps out uncharted territories. Through their actions, the effectual entrepreneurs’ set of means and consequently the set of possible effects change and get reconfigured. Eventually, certain of the emerging effects coalesce into clearly achievable and desirable goals — landmarks that point to a discernible path beginning to emerge in the wilderness. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h1pjmj24y4jjrnsavthwb0mq))
	- Effectual reasoning consists of the following principles:
	  
	  •   While causal reasoning focuses on expected return, effectual reasoning emphasizes affordable loss;
	  •   While causal reasoning depends upon competitive analyses, effectual reasoning is built upon strategic partnerships; and,
	  •   While causal reasoning urges the exploitation of pre-existing knowledge and prediction, effectual reasoning stresses the leveraging of contingencies. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h1pjmrqdjjsm32sm960fvpae))
	- Sarasvathy argues that while managers tend to analyse markets and choose target segments with the highest potential returns, successful entrepreneurs tend to look for methods to reach markets with a minimum expenditure of resources (be it time, effort, or money). In other words, they worked forwards from some set of resources, and selected ideas based on the affordable loss of those resources.
	  
	  One entrepreneur she interviewed told her that they would just ignore market research and just attempt to sell a product — *any* product, before the product was even made. “(I’d) just try to take it out and sell it. Even before I have the machine. I’d just go try and sell it. Even before I started production. My market research would actually be hands on selling. Hard work, but I think much better than trying to do market research.” ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h1pnw473ab7hhjvdj0pn2kv6))
	- **entrepreneurs do not tie themselves to any theorised or pre-conceived ‘market’ or strategic universe for their idea. Instead, they open themselves to surprises as to which market or markets they will eventually end up building their business in or even which new markets they will end up creating** *(emphasis mine)*. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h1pnx1rce8xa015dpgp28w1w))
	- Managers are likely to reach for systematic competitive analysis in the startup phase. Experienced entrepreneurs tend to assume that they don’t know which market their initial idea will target — or even what their final idea will look like! — which means competitive analysis is largely useless at the early stages of a startup ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h1pp0kff6s8ys6ed38rb9yx3))
	- . the strategic partnerships principle dovetails very well with the affordable loss principle to bring the entrepreneurs’ idea to market at really low levels of capital outlay. Furthermore, obtaining pre-commitments from key stakeholders helps reduce uncertainty in the early stages of creating an enterprise. Finally, since the entrepreneur is not wedded to any particular market for their idea, the expanding network of strategic partnerships determines to a great extent which market or markets the company will eventually end up in. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h1pween07z4snt0kwyp9z5ge))
	- Great entrepreneurial firms are products of contingencies. Their structure, culture, core competence, and endurance are all residuals of particular human beings striving to forge and fulfil particular aspirations through interactions with the space, time and technologies they live in. (...) The realisation that not all surprises are bad and that surprises, whether good or bad, can be used as inputs into the new venture creation process differentiates effectual reasoning from causal reasoning which tends to focus on the avoidance of surprises as far as possible. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h1pwg6e56r4rd25cn90v64jw))
	- successful startups are random, path dependent accidents. But instead of resisting this fact, expert entrepreneurs *embrace it.* Saravasthy continues: “causal reasoning is based on the logic, ‘*To the extent that we can predict the future, we can control it.*’ That is why both academics and practitioners in business today spend enormous amounts of brainpower and resources on developing predictive models. Effectual reasoning, however, is based on the logic, ‘*To the extent that we can control the future, we do not need to predict it.*’” ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h1pwhczkx202x5cce1pa2a1j))
	- Sarasvathy is careful to say that both causal and effectual thinking are prevalent in business; one is *not* better than the other. But in general, the earlier it is a company’s life, the more effectuation dominates. Effective founders are primarily effectual thinkers; good managers are primarily causal thinkers. At some point in a company’s life, founders have to switch from effectuation to causal reasoning as a primary mode of thinking. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h1pwj2935rvmh81s13qk8y27))
	- *Why* might an entrepreneur resort to effectual thinking? Sarasvathy argues that this is a worldview thing: entrepreneurs think effectually because they believe they can shape the future. But I am reminded of expertise researcher Lia DiBello’s [assertion](https://commoncog.com/lia-dibello-on-the-mental-model-of-business-expertise/) that perhaps skill in business is a [triad](https://commoncog.com/business-mental-model/) because that’s all our brains can handle. Similarly, you could say that effectuation is a *cognitive adaptation to uncertainty*. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h1pwndqyb4qmx42x4xqafsw6))
	- But entrepreneurs choose to view the future through effectual logic. Consciously, or unconsciously, they act as if they believe that the future is not “out there” to be discovered, but that it gets created through the very strategies of the players. **In other words, the entrepreneur using effectual logic says: “Whatever the initial distribution of balls in the urn, I will continue to acquire red balls and put them in the urn. I will look for other people who own red balls and induce them to become partners and add to the red balls in the urn. As time goes by, there will be so many red balls in the urn that almost every draw will obtain one. On the other hand, if I and my acquaintances have only green balls, we will put them in the urn, and when there are enough, will create a new game where green balls win. ”** Of course, such a view may express hopes rather than realities, and many entrepreneurs in the real world do fail. But the fact remains that entrepreneurs use this logic to try and build new urns and devise new games all the time. In fact, **several of the expert entrepreneurs I studied explicitly stated that being in a market that could be predicted was not such a good idea, since there would always be someone smarter and with deeper pockets who would predict it better than they could. But being in an unpredictable market meant that the market could be shaped through their own decisions and actions working in conjunction with pre-committed stakeholders and customer-partners**. Together they could use contingencies along the way as part of the raw materials that constitute the very urn they are constructing. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h1q0d7vc1cj42x6ejvfeeatd))
	- On some level it makes sense that entrepreneurs think effectually. When you can’t know what happens next, or what shapes your idea will take, you will, quite naturally:
	  
	  •   Take bets that are affordable to lose.
	  •   Build partnerships with customers and other stakeholders such that a loss is spread across your partners.
	  •   Accept that you *must* improvise when random events occur. (If the *only* information you can trust is generated when you’re taking action and poking at reality, then, well ... sometimes reality pokes back. What you do in response to that is what separates the entrepreneurs from the managers.) ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h1qxmk6saqqxx1n1erv9zmag))