title:: Why books don’t work (highlights)
author:: [[Andy Matuschak]]
full-title:: "Why books don’t work"
media:: #articles
url:: https://andymatuschak.org/books/

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[2023-06-13]]
	- All this suggests a peculiar conclusion: as a medium, *books are surprisingly bad at conveying knowledge, and readers mostly don’t realize it*. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h2vq9myahegb7715yga733r1))
	- Books don’t work for the same reason that lectures don’t work: neither medium has any explicit theory of how people actually learn things, and as a result, both mediums accidentally (and mostly invisibly) evolved around a theory that’s plainly false. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h2vqee4he9znnfwmyvqr8m6m))
	- : *to understand something, you must actively engage with it*. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h2vqmqn811xjxajf21yx1nb2))
	- I acknowledged earlier that of course, some people *do* absorb knowledge from books. Indeed, those are the people who really do think about what they’re reading. The process is often invisible. These readers’ inner monologues have sounds like: “This idea reminds me of…,” “This point conflicts with…,” “I don’t really understand how…,” etc. If they take some notes, they’re not simply transcribing the author’s words: they’re summarizing, synthesizing, analyzing. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h2vrg3tqnjj860tjw02bq5sw))
	- Unfortunately, these tactics don’t come easily. Readers must learn specific reflective strategies. “What questions should I be asking? How should I summarize what I’m reading?” Readers must run their own feedback loops. “Did I understand that? Should I re-read it? Consult another text?” Readers must understand their own cognition. “What does it feel like to understand something? Where are my blind spots?” ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h2vrgq37vvmfefe8pge2jh4y))
	- These skills fall into a bucket which learning science calls “metacognition.” The experimental evidence suggests that it’s challenging to learn these types of skills, and that many adults lack them. Worse, even if readers know *how* to do all these things, the process is quite taxing. Readers must juggle both the content of the book and also all these meta-questions. People particularly struggle to multitask like this when the content is unfamiliar. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h2vrh6sv7n58889bnv1gqnmb))
	- If lecturers believe that lectures are a warm-up for the understanding developed through problem sets and essays, then at least the lecturers design those activities and offer feedback on students’ work. By comparison, if authors believe that understanding comes only when readers really think about their words, then they’re largely leaving readers to design their own “problem sets” and to generate their own feedback. All this effortful “thinking about thinking” competes with actually thinking about the book’s ideas. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h2vrm9fxg805mwk5pn9fdr0x))
- New highlights added [[2023-06-13]] at 10:37 PM
	- class discussions support social learning: students understand topics more deeply by grappling with their peers’ understandings of the same ideas. Courses can provide a personal relationship with a disciplinary expert, a rich conduit for accessing the discipline’s culture—much of which may be tacit. For many students, courses offer a helpful accountability structure, playing an important role in supporting their willpower. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01h2vt61hxmc7gmdaxbfbmvex6))
		- **Note**: To become better at work you have to actively engage in your processes. Ask questions on what you can do better and explore various frames of solving the same problem in multiple ways. Don't be afraid to experiment. We need to engage during the work and also spend time reflecting after the work.