---
title: How to Read a Book
---

- Course
	 - Metadata
		 - Author:: [[Shane Parrish]]

		 - Tags:: #learning #knowledge #reading #[[Critical Thinking]]

		 - Status:: #reading #[[📥inbox]]

		 - Source::

- Ethos of reading
	 - You’re better off putting a lot of energy into a few amazing books than a little energy into many.
		 - Brings deeper understanding than knowing shallow knowledge.

	 - Some books demand to be read in their entirety. Most don’t. It’s your job to decide.
		 - It's okay to stop reading a book. Be selective about what you really want to go deeper into knowledge you are truly passionate about.

	 - [[Active engagement is key to reading for understanding]]. 
		 - Exactly how is less important.

	 - Always be skeptical. It’s okay (even good) to disagree with what you’re reading. #question #validate

	 - Great leaps in understanding come from imagined conversation between authors

- [[Z: Choose your book reading competitively]]
	 - Your time is limited, there is an opportunity cost. 

	 - Focus your attention only on amazing books.

	 - Are books the best medium to consume your information?

	 - [[Z: Find out the most topics you're most interested in.]] 
		 - Pursue topics that are most curious to you.

		 - What books are alignment with your goals. 

	 - It's easier to filter out bad books than it is to find a great book.

	 - Filter your list of books:
		 - by the person who recommending the book. 

		 - by age (if the book has been time tested)

- Scan read your books to decide if you should read the whole books
	 - Decide if you can read only parts of the book 

	 - Create a map of the book 
		 - Identify the concept 
			 - First Read(very quick skim) 5-10 minutes
				 - The goal of the quick skim is to understand what and how the book would teach you.

			 - Superficially read (30 minutes)
				 - Read the introduction in full, read subtitles, 1st and last paragraphs of chapters, read the summary at the end

		 - [[Z: Understand the book's argument]]
			 - Try to figure out the high overview of the book
				 - What is the author trying to prove

				 - How does the author shape the his argument

				 - Do you agree with the presented idea in principle

				 - What are the author's bias

				 - What do you already know about the topic?

				 - What don't you understand of the argument or topic presented.

		 - Identify the Areas of Focus
			 - Skip and skim sections that you already know or doesn't interest you

- [[Z: Read your book analytically]]
	 - **It's more important to absorb more information than to read more books. **
		 - [[Z: Engage with what you read]]
			 - Be [[skeptical]] with what you read
				 - Have a [[dialogue]] with what the author is arguing for.

				 - The better the writer the more you should be skeptical because it can be easy to be lulled into their narrative and writing and dropping your questioning mind.

			 - Seek out [[biases]], yours and the authors

			 - Read for information and question conclusions

			 - Constantly ask questions with what you already know and if it conflicts

			 - Take notes when moved: #[[Note taking]]
				 - Write down questions

				 - What are your doubts

				 - What are connections to ideas you already know

				 - Create an outline of the argument being presented

		 - [[Z: Analyze What You've Read]]
			 - Create a written piece on what you've learned #teach to understand
				 - The Feynman Technique #[[📥inbox]]
					 - Explain the idea to yourself in writing to test your understanding, memory and explanation.

			 - Do I agree with what the author stated?
				 - Are conclusion accurate?

				 - Are the conclusions biased?

				 - Is there something missing?

				 - Do the facts support the conclusion?

	 - Take a step away from the Book
		 - Taking a break from the book will help make [[connections]] with existing ideas

	 - After taking a break, pick up the book and reflect on the book
		 - Do I see the book the same way?

		 - What connections are new to me?

		 - Can I explain the big ideas simply?

- Read more than one source on a subject on concepts that you want to understand deeply [[Syntopical Reading]]
	 - Read the books at the same time

	 - Time Invested in syntopical reading is exponential
		 - Generates deep understanding

		 - Considered multiple opinions and perspective

		 - Recognize when narrative is covering up for faulty logic or covering facts
