title:: Books: Marketing Saves the World
tags:: #leadership, [[SecondReview]]
supermemo:: inProgress

- **author:** Bill Matassoni
- **status:** #SecondReview
- **link:**
- #[[Literature Notes]]
	- [[Market yourself as someone who creates value and excellence by identifying new dimensions of value]]
	- [[Make better decisions by finding new dimensions of framing and viewing a situation]]
		- [[To see new dimensions or frames of a situation we must change twice]]
	- [[Demand excellence from yourself through better thinking and judgment]]
	- [[To build success provide not only knowledge and skills but also leadership and ownership]]
	- [[Consider convenience as a new dimension of advantage]]
	- [[Consider emotional involvement, reputation, authenticity and trust, in the product or service as a prime competitive advantage]]
	- [[If you want to own an idea you may have to give it away]]
	- [[Consider trust a dimension for competitive advantage]]
	- [[Focus on value propositions rather than frameworks or methodologies]]
	- [[Be multidimensional in marketing yourself]]
	- [[Ignore mediocre leadership—be confident in yourself, skills, and the value you create]]
- #[[Reference Notes]]
	- ^^My story also makes a case that marketing, more than finance and strategy, is an essential ingredient for the success of companies and their leaders.^^ That if you become good at marketing, you will make lots of money and actually enjoy your career. ((f26f19c8-b86c-44e9-92f9-42fdd138916f))
	  id:: b6e2dfe6-80c1-4a09-905d-cd063263f293
		- Marketing should be more highly regarded, and it will be if marketers get better at ^^identifying new dimensions of value^^. What will those dimensions be? Which ones will last for a decade or longer? Luxury, convenience, intelligence, mobility, community? You tell me. There are forces at work in the world that will make new and almost unthinkable dimensions possible.
		  id:: 8b0e53e3-41e2-4b6f-893a-a4bbd7ca99ab
		- ^^My experiences have convinced me that marketing is really systems redesign and it can solve seemingly intransigent social and environmental problems that too often and unnecessarily pit interest groups against each other. ^^
		  id:: 7e3ff6ad-f1dd-4cc5-9c29-6164a7908d80
		- ^^Marketing, not diplomacy or negotiating skills, can resolve conflicts and actually create immense value rather than make compromises that merely share the pie as it currently exists.^^
		  id:: 6138eedb-0ae7-421c-bcbf-af65c7dc78f4
		- What I learned from the experience is ^^you need to look for new dimensions and that often those dimensions can be very different from what currently sells your product.^^ But what I didn’t learn then was new dimensions require more than just a new business model. ^^They require you to change your identity.^^
		  id:: b4637816-bf90-4ab7-8600-fbfb22bfc1e2
		- **First, the market-space is malleable. You can change it dramatically by reconceiving its dimensions. Sure, consulting is about process and results, but it can be about other things too—other things that not only differentiate and put you at the top of the pack, but put you into a whole new pack. 
		  id:: aa36be36-4473-4bef-97b1-fe43b1400339
			- Good marketers think hard and creatively about what those dimensions might be and how they can use them to bend the space and to bend it to their advantage.**
			- You don't have to share the pie but rather if you can find or create a new value stream you can enlarge the piece of the pie.
		- **“Don’t aspire to be the best or the biggest; aspire to be unique.”**
		  id:: affacfca-ad3d-4e3d-8c28-31bffc8839a2
	- That said, people are suspicious of marketing because it is as much art as science and there’s lots of room to hide laziness and incompetence in the art part. The skeptics will invariably demand careful thinking from you, and you will be asked to deliver measurable results. **Moreover, you will need to be determined not to let your vision be confined by established definitions of what clients and consumers want**.
	  id:: 9d26daa5-a19d-4554-8aee-acbe98d5426f
	- In healthcare, the environment, education and other areas, marketers have a big role to play in helping us redefine our objectives and the dimensions of value over which we should compete and cooperate.
		- **By dimension, I don’t mean something as precise as the word’s meaning in mathematics. But I mean more than a new angle or niche that increases sales. I mean a genuine change in direction and a re-definition of value. Something that drives everything else and defines benefit.** The proximity rather than the cost of healthcare in rural areas is an example. So is respect for people’s dying wishes in palliative care. On a more prosaic level, durability instead of density in a software chip. Handling and tread life in a tire. **For me, dimension has come to be a powerful way of looking at—and actually seeing—a new marketing space and challenge.**
		  id:: 9708b54e-783a-4217-910e-cda302cff151
	- Think of a matrix for people with high blood pressure. The horizontal, or x-axis, is unaware/aware. The vertical, or y-axis, is not treat and treat. Treatment needed to be a bigger part of our message both to reinforce and regain the right behavior. To get people to stay on treatment, we added a third dimension: emotion and love of family.
	- ^^You can bring emotion into any concept, product or service, even if it’s bug spray. The real challenge is to combine thinking and feeling.^^
	- **McKinsey, at least the senior partners who hired me, wanted me to succeed. The leaders were tough, demanding, widely capable men who had very high standards of performance.** ((f26f19c8-b86c-44e9-92f9-42fdd138916f))
	- First, I got my personal strategy roughly right. Don’t hang around headquarters and lecture the partners about marketing—what little I knew. Pick a few of them to work with and make good things, new things, happen. I went out and embraced McKinsey and it hugged me back.
		- Note: create value for a few select leaders rather than dilute your output and value by trying to impress everyone
	- ^^I saw my role from the outside in, as a good marketer should, and tried to keep my partners honest about the quality of their thinking.^^ I remember once Fred insisted that McKinsey had developed the idea of purchasing power parity. The next morning, I placed a couple of articles on his desk that proved him wrong.
	  id:: 9090cc10-8228-437c-9f17-c2964cf7fbeb
	- ^^Sixth, I really worked hard to understand the substance of McKinsey’s thinking and work even though I wasn’t advising clients.^^ Early on, one of the senior partners, Carter Bales, gave me some good advice. He told me to read the 16 staff papers that summarized most of McKinsey’s thinking at the time about strategy and organization. I read them all carefully. I did the math. In fact, at Andover I won the math prize. I almost flunked accounting at HBS, but my quantitative skills held me up. I also read external material that I thought we needed to know. I dragged a copy of Robert Solomon’s book on the international monetary system to Cape Cod one summer and read it twice. Too many marketers, I suspect, don’t really get into the substance of what their companies do and how they deliver value.
	  id:: 33f229d0-5e28-4aa4-b431-9f78e3777ed5
		- Note: **understand your problem space deeply**
		  id:: 7c35d905-7d6d-44f6-b679-5c5feb462b4b
	- ^^You should start by saying that when someone here is deciding to accept a speaking engagement, he should first ask himself if he has anything worthwhile to say.^^
	- What, after all, do consultants offer? Three things: people, skills and knowledge. McKinsey did not offer solve-the-problem methodologies as our competitors did. Instead, our editorials on issues that mattered to senior management positioned us as leaders, not consultants.
	  id:: 4e2ddeaa-5449-4244-94c1-4891cb9385cf
		- Note:offer leadership not just your knowledge or skill sets
		  id:: 60c80cf3-1c33-425a-9640-2249e67a2fec
	- Second, **to actually change the perspective and position of your firm, whether you consult or make soda pop, you probably need to do three or four things that somehow add up to a coordinated and sustained effort**. 
	  id:: 62077f8b-426a-49db-bbfe-80d6d2a842c0
		- Doing just one thing probably won’t be enough. McKinsey needed to do more than change its recruiting pitch. 
		  id:: 52f0debf-621d-4eec-97ab-8586b689ae97
		- But doing several things isn’t going to work either. You see many companies today try to change their image by adopting a new theme of the week: sustainability, diversity, convenience, nutrition, opulence, organic. Don’t be a chameleon. Identify new dimensions of value and then do things to substantiate your claim to be uniquely good in the new space you have defined.
		  id:: e8349563-631b-4eb7-9826-28f97a983770
	- It took me years to understand that being a partner of McKinsey meant that I was an owner. Literally an owner. Fred Gluck drummed it into my head. “Think like an owner,” he would say.
	  id:: c730693a-2291-42ce-a9a0-5faaadc09e46
		- Note: the quality of your work will become better if you own it and though it a reflection of yourself
		  id:: e630a796-1d4b-4acc-b0e4-a1013f27e93d
	- Great Marketers
		- I suspect that this is what great marketers do. They literally see new dimensions for how value is measured and pricing is set.
		- They figure out where in the new space they want their products and services to be. They are conceptual architects. And in many ways, they are also rebels. They are not content with adjustments. I can’t prove this, of course, and goodness knows marketing would not survive without product extensions that are improvements along existing dimensions. But I can give you some examples of game changers who insisted on seeing the world differently.
		- The question for a marketer, or a CEO for that matter, is not only is there a new and powerful dimension lurking out there, but how soon do you need to pursue it? Often, it is sooner than you think. That was the essential message of Clay Christiansen’s book The Innovator’s Dilemma. The primary example in that book is the disk drive industry. Christiansen shows how the dimension that determined purchase decisions, density, changed to durability. Why? Because of the growing importance of mobile devices. At first, this mobile market looked small and unlikely to change buying factors. In a few years, it shifted everything. Very few, if any, of the manufacturers who made disks that sold on their density survived the transition.** Christiansen points out that they paid too much attention to their big customers. There is a lesson here. If you are looking for a new dimension to the market-space, don’t ask your big customers.**
		- The toughest challenge to seeing new dimensions is you and your colleagues. You are what you sell. A BCG partner and friend of mine, Luc du Brabandere, wrote The Forgotten Half of Change. **In the book, he argues that if you want to change, you must change twice. You must change reality as well as perception. Picture the couple, he says, that is always late. They may change reality by setting their clocks ahead, lightening their calendars, etc. But unless they change their perception of how rude it is to be late, says Luc, they will be late again.**
		  id:: e5625e40-f15c-4038-9e06-35ec0ccb5e96
	- He saw what new technology could do and was going to do. Thus, **he saw convenience as a big new theme and dimension of market-spaces.** And he was right. **But you have to be careful not to be too abstract. What does convenience really mean? How do you make it sufficiently concrete so your product designers understand what is convenient rather than just a novelty? We see this today with purported new dimensions such as sustainability and organic. What does organic mean? Or sustainable?** Does BMW really expect to sell more cars because 16 percent of its batteries can be recycled? **There are many false dimensions, mirrors rather than glass. But there are also many possibilities to be explored. The biggest mistake a young marketer can make is to assume that the space has been mapped, the matrix has been set and its dimensions permanently defined.**
	  id:: 2b5dc02e-f03b-42c7-8149-0b5b3b9647c3
	- A few years after I met Michael, I worked with him on a book entitled Trading Up. In his book, he expanded on his idea that it was often possible to offer customers a new, more affordable level of luxury. The Limited, one of his clients, had sponsored his research on democratization. Michael argued that new luxury often had three different kinds of benefits: technical, functional and emotional. The trick was to get all three right. His primary example was one of the Limited’s holdings, Victoria’s Secret (VS). Michael explains how VS pursued all three. I won’t go into the details here because it is all in the book, but the lingerie VS offered was, first, technically better than that of its competitors. There is apparently a lot of engineering in those panties and bras. As a result of the technology and their research into what young women want their lingerie to do for them, the functionality of VS products was dramatically improved. (I’m treading carefully here.) Finally, VS hired some very good-looking and slender models to appear in their catalogues. The sex appeal went through the roof.
	- VS could offer superior lingerie at a price point well below luxury brands such as La Perla. Its promotion and advertising basically said you can wear sexy lingerie seven days a week, not just on weekends, and not break the bank. The technical, functional and emotional changes were all definitive improvements and they added up to a new dimension—call it everyday sexiness and self-esteem. As with the bug spray, emotion played a big role in redefining the product. But the technical and functional dimensions were important factors as well. The lesson for marketers may be to explore all three options as you think about levers to deliver a new dimension to your customers.
	- **My guess is that if we recreated our conversation today, he would say “intelligence” rather than convenience. As software becomes a key aspect of the functionality of products and services, consumers will expect it to think and serve them in new ways.** That’s what seems to be happening with cars. Cars park themselves now and they keep drivers from drifting into adjacent lanes. Pretty soon, experts say, cars will drive themselves. I’m skeptical, but wed that functionality to new business models like Uber, and the whole automotive space is likely to change dramatically. It will become much less personal as “ownership” disappears. Why own a car when you can just call one? Will you care how long it takes to get to 60 MPH or how well it handles? What does all this mean for Michelin and its tires? For the new marketer, I wonder if “intelligence” is the right dimension or some lower level of abstraction?
	  id:: 54400689-4b06-4a79-8e30-822e42ca62a3
	- But I would like to believe that advertising is both an art and a science. Something to which someone’s heart as well as head needs to be brought to bear. Something that combines both logic and emotion. Something that moves our souls as well as appeals to our reason.”
	- “Nope, all I am saying is that the modern advertising man or, for that matter, the modern marketer needs to integrate his sensibilities to excel.
	- To go back to my premise: **emotional involvement in the product or service is prime territory for competition and growth. **The discovery and delivery of new market dimensions may in the future be a much more collaborative effort and the nature of the collaborations will itself be a potential new dimension—as much so as the actual product or service. **Reputation, authenticity and trust will be factors in these new “communities” we used to call market segments.** Brave new world.
	  id:: 1cecfeb7-caa6-43b1-b77e-62cd399d0bde
	- Basically, we put two systems in place. One contained information on clients and the nature of our engagements. The other was a source of documents that practices designated as shareable and useful. There were about 2,000 of them that we stored in depots in New York, London and Sydney. That way, we could overnight them to teams, who always wanted them the next day. We named the whole thing PDNet. We tracked what was ordered—what was “selling.” Marketing wasn’t. Pricing was. By 1996, there were 12,000 documents on PDNet. Every month, at least 2,000 of them were sent to teams. Making the best sellers’ list was considered an important contribution to McKinsey. The new systems changed people’s behavior. They also changed how we thought of ourselves—our identity. We were more than great consultants, gunslingers who could solve any problem. We were part of a broad body of knowledge and experience, and it was our obligation to bring it to bear on every assignment. Brook helped McKinsey change twice: in reality and in self-perception. Our work was written up as a Harvard Business School case. #[[Lessons Learned]]
	- I called Bill Price, my longtime editor and right-hand man, and told him we would be doing some work over the weekend. First, we figured out the format. One page, not white, printed front and back. Title (not cute, short), five paragraphs with sidebars. First paragraph, here’s a problem you will likely encounter (like organization design, logistics, etc.). Second, here is how we typically think about that problem. Third, here’s a different way. Fourth, here are the titles of a couple of documents you can read if you’re interested. They are on PDNet. Fifth, here are the names of people you can call. #[[Lessons Learned]]
	- So we launched the bulletins, and sent out one or two a week. A woman named Ellen Nenner managed the process and really delivered. She also put the last brick in place: the KRD. Our consultants needed a quick reference guide to all the practices, which then numbered over 20. Ellen started to produce a little red book we named the Knowledge Resource Directory. Names, phone numbers, documents, you name it. It was an instant hit. Ellen carefully revised it every six months. Remember that ad that ended with the slogan,
	- **The knowledge management systems we built were not about knowledge. They were about people.** #[[knowledge management]]
	- Some time in the early ’90s, Fred wrote a memo that came to be called the “airplane memo.” He describes one of our young partners sitting down next to a CEO on a plane. After a while, they start talking and the CEO says to him, “What are you and McKinsey thinking about these days?” And the partner basically says, “Oh, you know, competitive advantage and stock valuation.” The CEO presses and says, “Okay, but what’s on your mind? What are you exploring?” And the partner doesn’t have much to say.** Fred basically says you shouldn’t be a partner unless you can have a substantive conversation about something you really care about. He says you can’t be a good generalist unless you are a specialist in something important.** **He adds, unless you can talk for several hours with the CMO, CSO or CFO about his job, keep your mouth shut until you can. The goal, he says, is not that you can talk for several hours, but that you can listen for that long, guide the conversation, and humbly make suggestions. So, you can be wise and helpful, not just smart. So you can really own the problem, not the “solution.”** It reminded me of the yellow pad notes that one of our senior partners used to write to his client. #[[Lessons Learned]]
	- ^^We learned that sometimes if you want to own an idea, you should give it away. Through the Quarterly and our press relations, we learned that clever research can be the best way to convey an idea.^^
	  id:: 44d4978e-675a-41ba-99ba-6a350686ef02
	- In general, we didn’t want to publish industry-specific pieces, which tended to be best practice and not strategic or top management focused. So I asked John Sawhill if the practice could do some quick research on the backgrounds of CMOs at the biggest utilities. It turned out they were all environmentalists. Their approach to their job was basically to get customers to stop using energy—not get unprofitable customers to cut back their usage. We published the results rather than the article—200 words rather than 2,000. The business and industry press wrote a dozen articles about its implications. McKinsey owned the issue. We did the same thing in banking, electronics and other practices where we had strong relationships with practice leaders.
	- More fundamentally, there was no theory or framework for innovation. The partners had very different views about how exactly to find new ideas and develop them. But I joined BCG because I had a lot of respect for them. They were a strong competitor to McKinsey.
	- **McKinsey had a culture of contribution. It was committed to measuring the soft stuff. For example, the members of the personnel committees would regularly stop by to see me to talk about the value of an idea or article. Was it new, did it attract clients, did it yield real insight and suggest new strategic options? It wasn’t easy, but they cared. They cared about mentoring as well and asked pointed questions. They cared about the quality of our relationships with clients’ senior management. The committees would personally visit client CEOs and ask questions about how many people from outside the local McKinsey office were brought in to the work because of the relevance of their experience or knowledge. By the mid-’80s, during Ron Daniel’s fourth term as managing partner, revenues were a secondary factor—honest.**
	- Trust was a dimension we also explored. Carl championed an idea that BCG’s defining logic was insight, impact and trust. Trust is the opposite of playing hardball, but George and I thought they might go together. Sort of “me and Julio down by the school yard.”** Could you trust your consultant to push you hard yet respect your organization and its top management? McKinsey was trusted. Bain was not because of bad press about some of its clients where they were perceived to have pushed people around or replaced them. But trust is a tricky dimension.** I once asked Ron Daniel if McKinsey served the company or the CEO. Ron didn’t really answer and did not want to get into the issue. We serve both, he said. But we had positioned ourselves as a leadership factory. The answer seemed clear to me and gave BCG the chance to claim it served the company, not just someone’s career. Fine, but which position on the trust dimension gets you clients?
	  id:: cc664140-67f3-4d0a-a442-fc7279c4d0c3
	- Don’t Let People Raise Obstacles to Change Unless They Also Propose Solutions #[[skin in the game]]
	  id:: e016ed53-f564-4987-bac3-c7c08f1a73be
		- Nobody, as far as I am concerned, should be allowed to bring up a problem facing a turnaround without also offering options for bypassing the problem. Naysayers are a drag on and sometimes the death of successful turnarounds. That’s why some people who started out with us are not at this dinner party. Many companies concentrate on finding the right people. It is just as important, sometimes more so, to get rid of the wrong ones.
		  id:: 2306b6f5-3b6f-46c4-b232-0d8a9b13d9c9
	- Say Yes or No, but Never Say Maybe I believe that the greatest stress on any organization is unclear direction. It’s very easy for well-intentioned leadership to let questionable initiatives continue in the hope that they will generate something positive.
	- **Keep Your People—Employees, Customers, Suppliers and Financiers—Informed**
	- I also failed to convince practice leaders to focus on value propositions rather than frameworks and methodologies. **Professional service firms need to prove to potential clients that they will be worth their fees and deliver value**. To do so, they often resort to value “proofs.” As I noted earlier, these proofs are usually examples of their past work. Or they detail methodologies—XYZ named processes—that guarantee good results. Both can work, but over the years I had come to believe that **a more effective approach to convincing clients that your firm can really help them is to develop compelling value propositions.**
		- **There is a rigor and logic to strong value propositions. **
			- **First, they contain a definition of the problem or opportunity**. It can be concrete or abstract—managing a global supply chain, for example, or leading an organizational turnaround.** Convincing value propositions start with three or four insights about the situation. **
			  id:: 3989e5a6-5973-4bad-9a9e-5ea19017b380
				- What spells success or leads to failure? 
				  id:: 77724c2b-5977-43fe-bee7-893fe1ac9e2f
				- What is counterintuitive? 
				  id:: 87bb7c4f-f082-4c78-ae57-6dba1b5484bf
			- **Second, a good value proposition describes the managerial challenges that result from your basic beliefs regarding success and failure. It lays out what leaders need to do to win and what they must solve for.** 
			  id:: 0ad6a4b0-336e-4af6-ab2e-799d8bc480b4
				- This may seem straightforward, but often it’s not. If your basic beliefs contain both durable and new insights, they can help managers see better what confronts them and assess whether they are ready.
				  id:: 4b04fde1-c5e5-43da-ae31-0f9b11cc3d35
		- Having defined managerial challenges, a good value proposition then needs to address a basic question in an honest but not arrogant way.
			- Why an outsider? Why can’t management address these challenges on its own?
			- What information, perspective, resolve, etc. is missing?
		- And finally, a strong value proposition needs to answer one last question: why us? If an outsider is needed, why is it you? What people, skills and knowledge—that’s all professional firms have—make you a clear choice among your competitors? And how does that relate to the one dimension in your space where you are king. Good value propositions define the problem in your terms.
	- The reports of the meetings Tapestry produced for this network read differently than the reports for their other clients. They probed and asked questions and in an informal way got the participants to check their assumptions about behavior and outcomes. Then good things happened. Here’s Forrester on the process: **“The most intense disagreements usually arise, not because of differences about underlying assumptions, but from different and incorrect intuitive solutions for the behavior implied by those assumptions. In building a system dynamics model, one starts from the structure and the decision-making rules in a system.** Usually there is little debate about structure and the major considerations in decisions. When a model has been constructed from the accepted structure and policies, the behavior will often be unexpected. As the reasons for that behavior become understood, I have often seen extreme differences of opinion converge into agreement.”
	- So, I needed to ask myself, and now you, gentle reader, if the basic idea I’ve been advancing—that marketing’s primary task is to create new dimensions in a market-space—is still relevant and useful in highly complex industries and environments. I believe it is, but it needs to be reshaped. First, the market-space itself must be thought of as a dynamic system, not just a multidimensional matrix. Second, dimensions themselves may be better defined as superordinate goals that the various stakeholders need to embrace and see as consistent with their goals. Looking back on my work with the National High Blood Pressure Education program, I realize that’s what we were doing when we shifted the focus from detection to compliance. That caused everyone involved to see their job differently. The new goal didn’t ask any of the stakeholders to be saints by focusing on compliance. The pharma companies could still try to sell their drugs to doctors and regulators who could still focus on ensuring the safety and effectiveness of the drugs, but the new goal changed their behavior so that the system as a whole created more value. More people took more drugs and kept their blood pressure under control, thereby saving the country millions of dollars in healthcare costs.
	- So, I have come to believe that there is a new role for marketing to play in a world of seemingly intractable problems—problems in healthcare, education, the environment, privacy and other areas. I believe marketers can do a better job against these challenges than policy makers, regulators and other players. By “do a better job,” I mean they can help competing parties create more value for themselves and others. Both economic and social value. They can do this not by finding compromises that satisfy different players, common ground, but by instead finding higher ground. Dare I say it is a new paradigm—a big shared idea. And I believe they can do this using an approach that is similar to what I described earlier as searching for new dimensions of value. By keeping everyone’s eyes focused on the right goal. Whereas the formula used to be create, communicate and capture value, in multi-stakeholder markets it becomes create, capture and share more value.
	- **Tapestry, to my mind, had bent the drug development space; it had grabbed the system by its shoulders and said, “Look what you’re doing and look how you are failing.”** Ironically, Tapestry itself is now torn about what it really is. It is very good at high-level facilitation. It is just learning about how to advance society’s ability to govern and lead—a new mission I asked them to consider. It will take new kinds of people—not lawyers, policy wonks and scribes alone. **It will take people who know how to understand a system, scientists and space benders who can find new ways to assemble levels, flows, policies and decisions. And it will take the new kind of marketer I have been describing.**
	- The new marketing profession I am calling for has no room for vagueness or glibness. Who will these new professionals be? What will they look like? Well, they will look more like Matt and Nicholas than a “graduate” of P&G. Yes, they will have all the tools of segmentation and pricing and strong analytical capabilities. They will need to start with the same basic checklist McKinsey published in a staff paper in 1988: Benefits explicit, specific, clearly stated. Price explicitly stated. Target customer clearly identified. Clear how this value proposition is superior for target segment. Evidence of adequate demand. Evidence of acceptable returns. Viable in light of competitors’ value propositions. Achievable with feasible changes in current business system. The best of several value propositions considered. Clear and simple.
	- **Marketing is about defeating the people in charge. About defeating the people who would keep an industry unchanged, who would write policy that limits prices and competition—timid, unimaginative participants who insist that the customer is always right.**
	  id:: afd229c0-b33a-489f-8f2f-e1c959458281
- [[roam/comments]]
	- [[October 5th, 2021]]
		- [[philipr@posteo.net]]
			- ((9d26daa5-a19d-4554-8aee-acbe98d5426f))
				- When we call something art, it becomes subjective and difficult to measure. Therefore, it becomes easier for people to hide laziness and incompetence.
			- ((b6e2dfe6-80c1-4a09-905d-cd063263f293))
				- How can we incorporate marketing strategies to enrich our careers and build success in our jobs?